EVENING,
EVERYONE, AND WELCOME THE
SEPTEMBER 6TH MEETING OF THE
ANN ARBOR CITY COUNCIL.
IF YOU&apos;RE ABLE PLEASE RISE AND
JOIN US FOR A MOMENT OF SILENCE
FOLLOWED BY THE PLEDGE
OF ALLEGIANCE
.
&gt;&gt; I PLEDGE ALLEGIANCE TO THE
FLAG OF THE UNITED OF AMERICA
AND TO THE REPUBLIC FOR WHICH
IT STANDS ONE NATION
INDIVISIBLE WITH LIBERTY AND
JUSTICE FOR ALL
WHAT OUR CLARK
PLEASE CALL THE ROLE OF COUNSEL
HERE OF OUR NATION.
HERE COMES MY FIRST WOLF HERE
MIRTHA HERE THAT&apos;S MORE GRAND
HERE OVER DENHA HERE POPULAR
HERE ELSMERE IA CONSERVER
NELSON HERE THAT&apos;S MY BRIGS.
&gt;&gt; HERE IS MY ROLLAWAY PRESENT.
WE HAVE A QUORUM.
WE THE MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COUNT THE
BRITISH SECONDED BY COUNCIL
MEMBER CROSSWELL DISCUSSION
OF THE AGENDA ON FABER POST THE
AGENDA IS APPROVED.
DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM OUR CITY ADMINISTRATOR?
NO MAYOR TODAY WE HAVE ONE
INTRODUCTION A COMMUNICATION
FROM THE CHAIR OF OUR
INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY POLICE
OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
HER MONTHLY UPDATE DR. LISA
JACKSON.
&gt;&gt; DR. JACKSON, YOU HAVE THE
CON
DR. JACKSON IS JOINING US
ON THE SO THANK THANK YOU AND
GOOD EVENING FOR THOSE OF YOU
WHO DON&apos;T KNOW ME, MY NAME IS
LISA JACKSON AND THE CHAIR
OF AN INDEPENDENT COMMUNITY
POLICE OVERSIGHT COMMISSION.
I WANT TO PREFACE MY RESPONSE
MY REMARKS THIS EVENING WITH
TWO QUESTIONS QUESTIONS THAT I
HOPE YOU&apos;LL KEEP IN THE BACK
OF YOUR MIND NOT JUST NOW BUT
ALSO AS YOU ENGAGE WITH THESE
TOPICS MOVING FORWARD, WHAT ARE
YOU WILLING TO PAY FOR CHANGE?
WHAT HAVE YOU PAID ALREADY
SINCE OUR COMMISSION&apos;S
FORMATION IN TWENTY NINETEEN
AND OUR HAS MADE SOME PROGRESS
IN MAKING OUR POLICE FORCE MORE
TRANSPARENT AND A BIT MORE
ACCOUNTABLE THOUGH WE STILL
HAVE A LONG WAY TO WHAT WE HAVE
ACCOMPLISHED SO FAR IS
SIGNIFICANT.
WE FINALLY AN OVERSIGHT BODY
CAPABLE OF ACCESSING BOTH THE
NAMES OF OFFICERS AND THE NAMES
OF COMPLAINANTS WHEN
INVESTIGATING COMPLAINTS AND
WE&apos;VE ADDED MORE INFORMATION
MANAGERS TO ACCELERATE THESE
INDEPENDENT REVIEWS.
WE&apos;RE NOW OPEN HAVING AN OPEN
CONVERSATION ABOUT POLICE
CONDUCT WITH CITY OFFICIALS AND
ACROSS THE COMMUNITY AND ABOUT
THE WAYS IN WHICH POLICE
CONDUCT CAN BE IMPROVED TO
REFLECT THE VALUES THAT OUR
COMMUNITY HOLDS.
YOU GUYS HAVE JUST PASSED
FUNDING FOR UNARMED EMERGENCY
RESPONSE SO THAT PEOPLE HAVE AN
ALTERNATIVE TO THE POLICE WHEN
THEY NEED HELP AND THESE ARE
OUR ACCOMPLISHMENTS WE SHOULD
BE PROUD OF NOT JUST FOR WHAT
THEY ARE BUT ALSO BECAUSE THEY
REPRESENT A FUNDAMENTAL SHIFT
IN THE WAY THAT BOTH OUR
COMMUNITY AND OUR LOCAL
GOVERNMENT THINKS
ABOUT WHAT
REAL PUBLIC SAFETY LOOKS LIKE.
THESE EFFORTS HAVE BEEN BACKED
BY AN UNPRECEDENTED AMOUNT
OF LOCAL INVESTMENT INTO
IMPROVING POLICING INCLUDING
TWO HUNDRED AND NINETY THOUSAND
DOLLARS GOING TO TAKE BACK OVER
THE YEARS AND THREE POINT FIVE
MILLION DOLLARS BUDGETED TO A
FUTURE UNARMED RESPONSE
PROGRAM.
WHAT ARE YOU WILLING TO PAY FOR
CHANGE?
WHAT HAVE YOU PAID ALREADY?
KRISTEN PARKER.
ROBERT HUBBERT MARSEILLE&apos;S
MICHAEL MCPHAIL LEWIS ANGEL
GARCIA JALEN WALKER.
WE&apos;RE DARREN RLJ BATES BUT JAY
CHAPMAN CHRISTOPHER KELLY SODHI
RILEY HEATH CARROLL.
JASON DODDS RAYMOND CALDERON
ANTONIO BEEKMAN QUINCY
PRITCHETT, PETER FISTER.
&gt;&gt; TARRYL SHANE EARL HOLLAND
NOVICH KEVIN GREEN AMOS LANE
OSCAR SANTIAGO FRANK BAYTI ROY
SINC NAME WITHHELD GONZALO
ACETOPHENONE JR. DERRICK DWAYNE
CLARK WILLIAM IVAN STUDIOS
CHRISTIAN ROBERT JENSEN MATTHEW
BIALOSKY JOSEPH MAVERICK NAGLE
RICHARD HOLLIS CHRISTOPHER
HENSLEIGH JEREMY BENNETT NAME
WITHHELD TERRY STEPHENSON JOHN
GREECE MICHAEL CHRISTOPHER
KRATER MATTHEW TYLER MICHAEL
DEVLIN WIND TIMOTHY ADAMS
BRANDON KEITH NEN NAHMIAS IPPS
CARLOS ELI CASTILLO JEROME
LAVONE CONNOLLY CAESAR
ANTHONY PENA DANIEL RAYMOND
HONEYCUT NAME WITH ROBERT TYLER
GREEN DAKOTA COLEMAN JASON
JAMES MORALEZ POSITIVE NESTO
BATTLE STAES OUR HERO JAMES
JACOB POITRAS JOSEPH ROBERT
HENRY THOMPSON ZACHARY
RUTHERFORD WALTER CHOICE COREY
BREWER RICHIE HOLCOMB
KEVIN COLLIN DRESS TYLER MACCI
SINCERE BOBES ANDRE HERNANDEZ
JR. MICHAEL ALLEN LOHMAN EDWARD
SALMON MARTIN KIWA MIKE SMITH
GONZALO LóPEZ DESMOND ESKRIDGE
KEVIN DWIGHT INáCIO
ANTHONY KEITH TAYLOR NAME
WITHHELD DERRICK GLENN AVY
MARSHALL CURTIS JONES FILIBERTO
AS WHAT GOES MISSING IN THESE
CONVERSATIONS ABOUT THE PRICE
OF CHANGE?
THE PRICE OF PROGRESS IS THE
COST IN HUMAN LIFE.
THOSE WERE THE NAMES OF PEOPLE
KILLED BY POLICE IN JUST THE
MONTH OF JUNE TWENTY TWENTY TWO
HOWEVER IT WOULD TAKE ME THREE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY SEVEN
MINUTES OR JUST UNDER FIVE AND
A HALF HOURS TO SAY THE NAMES
OF THE MORE THAN EIGHT THOUSAND
FOUR HUNDRED AND SEVENTY NINE
PEOPLE LOST TO POLICE VIOLENCE
SINCE AUTHORS&apos; DEATH OR
ROSTER&apos;S DEATH ON NOVEMBER 9TH.
TWENTY FOURTEEN THAT&apos;S THE REAL
COST WE&apos;VE PAID FOR PROGRESS IN
THIS COUNTRY AND AND THERE IS
NO STRANGER TO IT.
WE OWE THE EXISTENCE OF OUR
POLICE NOT JUST TO THE TASK
FORCE THAT PRECEDED IT BUT TO
THE LIVES THAT ALL OF US HAD
TAKEN FROM HER.
WE OWED THE CONGRESS WERE NOW
ABLE TO HAVE ABOUT POLICING TO
THE LIVES OF PEOPLE LIKE GEORGE
FLOYD AND ABOUT OUR AND BRIANNA
TAYLOR.
WE OWE IT POSSIBILITY TO SEE
POLICE AT THE SAME TIME AS THE
POLICE.
NOW TO THE TWO WOMEN WHOSE HOME
WAS MISTAKENLY BROKEN INTO BY
APD OFFICERS IN NOVEMBER
OF TWENTY TWENTY.
THE MAGNITUDE OF THIS COST
SHOULD BE OBVIOUS BUT THE LAST
THING I WANT IS FOR THAT
ENORMITY TO DISTRACT US FROM
THE RESPONSE ABILITY WE HAVE TO
ADDRESS IT.
WE SHOULD ABSOLUTELY WEEP WHEN
FACED WITH TRAGEDY.
BUT IN THE MOMENTS IN BETWEEN
THE GUNSHOTS WE NEED TO BE
DOING MORE TO PREVENT THE NEXT
ONE FROM OCCURRING AND THEN THE
NEXT ONE AND THEN THE ONE AFTER
THAT.
WHAT ARE YOU WILLING TO PAY FOR
CHANGE?
WHAT HAVE YOU PAID ALREADY THE
NEXT YOU ASK YOURSELVES THOSE
QUESTIONS.
I HOPE YOU DO IT WITH A SENSE
OF URGENCY BECAUSE DESPITE WHAT
PROGRESS WE&apos;VE MADE TO MANY
PEOPLE HAVE ALREADY BEEN ASKED
TO PAY FAR TOO MUCH TO GET TO
WHERE WE ARE AND WE STILL HAVE
SO SO FAR TO GO.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC AND
RESERVE TIME.
PUBLIC RESERVE TIME IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS OF THE
PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO COUNCIL AND
THE COMMUNITY ABOUT MATTERS
OF MUNICIPAL INTEREST TO SPEAK
OF PUBLIC AND RESERVE TIME ONE
NEEDS TO HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE BY CONTACTING OUR CITY
CLERK SPEAKERS BOTH HERE AND
ONLINE WILL HAVE THREE MINUTES
IN WHICH TO SPEAK SO PLEASE PAY
CLOSE ATTENTION TO THE TIME OUR
CLERK WILL NOTIFY YOU WHEN
THIRTY SECONDS REMAINING WHEN
YOU ARE ON LINE AND WHEN YOUR
TIME IS UP THE TIME TO APPEAR
WILL NOTIFY YOU OF SAME AND IN
EACH CASE IF YOU WOULD PLEASE
WHEN YOUR TIME&apos;S EXPIRED PLEASE
CONCLUDE REMARKS AND CEDE THE
FLOOR OUR FIRST SPEAKER TODAY
IS JOHN MASKEY
.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS JOHN MIRSKY.
I LIVE AT FIVE OR FIVE BURSTEN
PLACE.
I CHAIR THE ENERGY COMMISSION
AND I ALSO SERVE ON THE
ENVIRONMENTAL COMMISSION.
I URGE YOU TO VOTE FOR THE
RESOLUTION TO APPROVE SERVICE
AGREEMENT WITH FIVE LAKES
ENERGY TO COMPLETE A
FEASIBILITY STUDY REGARDING THE
CREATION OF A TRADITIONAL
MUNICIPAL ELECTRIC UTILITY AND
AN EVALUATION OF OTHER PATHWAYS
TO ACHIEVE THE CITY&apos;S TWENTY
FOUR EIGHT TWO ZERO GOALS ALONG
WITH THE INITIATION OF NEXT
STEPS TO ADVANCE A LOCAL SEIYU
INCLUDING APPROPRIATING THE
NECESSARY FUNDS TO COVER THE
FULL COST OF THE SERVICE
AGREEMENT.
&gt;&gt; THIS STUDY IS NECESSARY TO
ASCERTAIN HOW TO BEST IMPLEMENT
STRATEGY.
ONE OF THE TWO ZERO PLAN
POWERING OUR ELECTRICAL GRID
WITH ONE PERCENT RENEWABLE
ENERGY DOING SO EFFICIENTLY AND
EFFECTIVELY, TECHNICALLY,
FINANCIALLY AND
ADMINISTRATIVELY IS PERHAPS THE
MOST IMPORTANT ELEMENT OF THE
PLAN.
&gt;&gt; WE NEED A BETTER OPTION THAN
RELYING ON DTG THERE ARE
SEVERAL POSSIBLE ALTERNATIVE
PATHWAYS INCLUDING COMMUNITY
CHOICE AGGREGATION WHICH IS
INCLUDED IN THE ZERO PLAN
MUNICIPAL IZATION THROUGH
CONDEMNATION OF DTES ASSETS AND
OR THE IMPLEMENTATION OF THE
PROPOSED SEIYU.
THERE MAY BE OTHERS TO INFORM
STAFF, THE ENERGY COMMISSION
AND THE PUBLIC AND TO GUIDE
YOUR DECISION MAKING IT IS
NECESSARY TO INDEPENDENTLY
EVALUATE THE FOLLOWING FOR EACH
PATHWAY AND RELATIVE TO EACH
OTHER THE TOTAL RESOURCES
REQUIRED INCLUDING CITY STAFF
TIME AND OUT OF POCKET
EXPENSES.
THE TIME TO IMPLEMENT RELATIVE
TO THE CITY&apos;S NET ZERO TARGET
DATE OF TWENTY THIRTY THE
LIKELIHOOD OF SUCCESS THE
OPPORTUNITY COSTS.
&gt;&gt; IN OTHER WORDS WHAT COULD BE
DONE WITH THE SAME RESOURCES
TIME MONEY, POLITICAL ADVOCACY
AND FOCUS TO ADVANCE
DECARBONIZATION IN ANN ARBOR
AND BEYOND IN OTHER WAYS AND
THE DEGREE TO WHICH ETHE
PATHWAY IS TRANSFERABLE AND
SCALABLE TO OTHER
MUNICIPALITIES IN ACCORDANCE
WITH THE CRITERIA AND
PRINCIPLES FOR ACHIEVING
RENEWABLE ENERGY GOALS WHICH
YOU APPROVED.
IT IS RESPONSIBLE TO DETERMINE
THIS BEFORE ENDORSING OR
COMMITTING TO ANY SPECIFIC PATH
FORWARD.
NO ENTITY HAS DONE THIS.
THE ENERGY COMMISSION HAS NOT.
THE CITY AND STAFF HAVE NOT AND
I PREFER PUBLIC POWER HAS NOT.
ANOTHER THIRD PARTY ALSO HAS
NOT.
&gt;&gt; THE PROPOSED CONTRACT WITH
FIVE LAKES ENERGY WORKING
TOGETHER WITH NEW DJENNE
STRATEGY AND SOLUTIONS WILL
PROVIDE THIS INFORMATION AND
THE BASIS FOR PUBLIC
DISCUSSION, DEBATE AND DECISION
MAKING.
PLEASE APPROVE TONIGHT&apos;S
RESOLUTION.
THANK YOU FOR CONSIDERING MY
INPUT AND FOR YOUR PUBLIC
SERVICE.
&gt;&gt; THANK.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS DR. LAWN
SERGEANT.
&gt;&gt; GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS LAUREN SARGENT.
I LIVE ON NO WAY AND I&apos;M A
THIRTY EIGHT YEAR RESIDENT
OF ANN ARBOR.
I AM ALSO A CO-FOUNDER
OF WASHTENAW THREE FIFTY.
THE CLIMATE CRISIS REQUIRES US
TO ELECTRIFY EVERYTHING AND
POWER IT WITH RENEWABLES AND
EFFICIENCY.
NO NEW INFRASTRUCTURE FOR
FOSSIL FUELS BUT HOW TONIGHT I
URGE YOU TO VOTE YES ON THE
RESOLUTION BEFORE YOU.
THE AGREEMENT WITH FIVE LAKES
ENERGY TO CONDUCT A FEASIBILITY
STUDY INTO A TRADITIONAL
MUNICIPAL UTILITY ETC. BUT I&apos;M
GOING TO ADDRESS THE FIRST
WASHTENAW THREE FIFTY EXAMINED
ACTIONS AT ALL LEVELS AND
CONCLUDED AT THE MOST ROBUST
AND ACHIEVABLE MEANS TO REACH
OUR COMMUNITY GOALS.
ONE HUNDRED PERCENT RENEWABLE
ELECTRICITY BY 2030 IS TO
ESTABLISH A MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
WE LEARNED THAT OUR STATE
REPRESENTATIVE STUFF RABIE AND
STATE SENATOR JEFF ERWAN ALSO
FULLY SUPPORT THIS APPROACH AND
WE THEN FOUND OUT ABOUT THE
COALITION AND FOR PUBLIC POWER
AND JOINED IT.
WE WERE A LITTLE LATE TO THE
PARTY BUT IT&apos;S A GOOD PARTY TO
APPEAR TO HAS BEEN ADVOCATE FOR
A FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR A
MUNICIPAL UTILITY FOR ABOUT TWO
YEARS AND TONIGHT WE ARE ON THE
STARTING LINE.
I URGE
COUNCIL TO SUPPORT THIS
BIG STEP FORWARD WITH SOME
ADDITIONAL REQUESTS.
PLEASE DO NOT FORGET TO
CONSIDER THE MANY BENEFITS AS
WELL AS THE COSTS OF A
MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
IT IS NO COINCIDENCE THAT THE
SIX MUNICIPALITIES IN THIS
COUNTRY THAT ARE MEETING THEIR
CLIMATE GOALS THAT ARE VERY
MUCH LIKE OURS ARE ALL OF THOSE
WHO HAVE A MUNICIPAL UTILITY.
IT IS ALSO NO COINCIDENCE THAT
CITIES WITH MUNICIPAL UTILITIES
HAVE MORE RELIABLE AND LESS
COSTLY ELECTRICITY.
COMPARE OUR RECENT POWER OUTAGE
WITH LANSING.
THE BOARD OF WATER AND LIGHT
HAS NOT HAD A MAJOR POWER
OUTAGE SINCE TWENTY TWELVE AS
THEY MADE OVER ONE HUNDRED
IMPROVEMENTS TO INFRASTRUCTURE
IN RESPONSE TO DEMANDS FROM THE
COMMUNITY THEY ARE RESPONSIBLE
TO.
IN CONTRAST DTA FAILS REGULARLY
BUT THEY ARE ACCOUNTABLE TO
SHAREHOLDERS AND NOT TO US.
&gt;&gt; WINTER PARK, FLORIDA WHICH
MUNICIPAL AS THEIR ELECTRICAL
UTILITY THIS DECADE IS ON TRACK
TO UNDERGROUND ALL OF THEIR
LINES TO IMPROVE RELIABILITY IN
THE FACE OF THE MORE FREQUENT
AND INTENSE STORMS THAT WE ARE
EXPERIENCING DUE TO THE CLIMATE
CRISIS.
COMPARE THAT TO THE GROWTH
UNDER INVESTMENT IN
INFRASTRUCTURE AND THE TREE
MUTILATION THAT OUR MONOPOLY
INVESTS THE MONOPOLY INVESTOR
OWNED UTILITY PRESENTS TO US.
I ALSO JUST TO THINK ABOUT
COSTS NOT ONLY IN TERMS
OF CREATING THE MUNICIPAL
UTILITY BUT IN TERMS OF THE
COSTS OF FAILING TO DO SO.
I THINK THE MONEY THAT THE
BUSINESSES IN ANN ARBOR JUST
LOST ONE NEAR ME SAID IT WAS
FIFTEEN THOUSAND DOLLARS
MULTIPLY THAT THINK OF THE
WORKERS WHO COULD NOT WORK.
I COMMEND TO YOU THE PODCAST
PUT OUT TODAY BY THE INSTITUTE
FOR LOCAL SELF-RELIANCE PUBLIC
POWER PART ONE WHY TAKE OVER?
I HOPE YOU LISTEN TO IT AND
SHARE IT.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS SAM
CUPPY AGGRIEVE.
THANK YOU FOR ALL BEING HERE.
I&apos;M VERY EXCITED THAT THIS
ONE&apos;S ON THE AGENDA.
I THINK THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR US AS A CITY TO THINK ABOUT
WHETHER WE WANT TO HAVE PROVIDE
ELECTRICITY MUNICIPALLY LIKE WE
PROVIDE OUR WATER.
I&apos;M NOT SURE HOW YOU LIKE THE
WATER SERVICE HERE BUT I THINK
IT&apos;S GREAT WHEN I COMPARE MY
EXPERIENCES DEALING WITH THE
CITY WATER DEPARTMENT AND AND
DEALING WITH DTA.
I HAVE A MUCH BETTER EXPERIENCE
WITH THE WATER DEPARTMENT SO I
LOOK FORWARD TO HAVING THAT
SAME EXPERIENCE WITH A CITY
OWNED UTILITY.
PERSONALLY I AM IN FAVOR OF THE
FEASIBILITY STUDY SO WE CAN
LEARN WHETHER THIS MAKES SENSE
FOR OUR CITY.
I GUESS THE OTHER NOTE I&apos;M VERY
SKEPTICAL OF COMPANIES AND I
THINK WE&apos;VE LEARNED TO BE IN
WASHTENAW COUNTY AND OUR MOST
RECENT EXPERIENCE OR TWO RECENT
EXPERIENCES I WAS THINKING
OF ONE EARLIER WE WE IN THIS
COUNTY WERE TREATED HORRIBLY BY
GENERAL MOTORS.
COMPANIES CANNOT BE TRUSTED AND
WE SHOULD NOT TRUST THEM AND
NOT NO ACTION SHOULD BE MADE
TRUSTING THAT A COMPANY WILL DO
ANYTHING THAT&apos;S NOT IN THE
INTERESTS OF ITS MANAGEMENT OR
SHAREHOLDERS AND I KNOW IT&apos;S
TOO SOON BUT I MEAN PFIZER WAS
HERE FOR A WHILE AND OTHER NOT
AND SO I JUST WANT TO ASK YOU
ALL TO KEEP AN OPEN MIND AND
GIVE THE PROPOSAL FOR
CONSIDERATION.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
HAVE A GOOD EVENING.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ZACHARIA
PHARE.
I CAN YOU HEAR ME ALL RIGHT?
&gt;&gt; YOU BET.
GREAT.
THANKS.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS ZACHARIA FERRUM.
I LIVE IN WARD TWO AND I&apos;M HERE
AS A REPRESENTATIVE OF ANN
ARBOR FOR PUBLIC POWER.
I&apos;D LIKE TO EXPRESS MY SUPPORT
FOR ONE THE RESOLUTION TO
APPROVE A FEASIBILITY
FEASIBILITY STUDY ON
ESTABLISHING A PUBLIC POWER
UTILITY AND AN SEIU.
BUT FIRST THEY LIKE TO EXPRESS
MY GRATITUDE TO YOU ALL FOR
MOVING FORWARD ON THIS VERY
IMPORTANT ISSUE.
NOW I REMEMBER THE VERY FIRST
TIME I EVER CONTACTED A CITY
COUNCIL MEMBER ABOUT ANY ISSUE.
IT WAS BACK IN TWENTY TWENTY.
&gt;&gt; I TOLD ALL OF YOU TO ASK YOU
TO PASS THE EIGHT TO ZERO PLAN
.
I DON&apos;T KNOW IF YOU REMEMBER
THAT I WAS AND STILL AM
EXTREMELY CONCERNED ABOUT THE
IMPACTS OF CLIMATE CHANGE ON
OUR SOCIETY AND I BELIEVE THAT
BY PASSING THIS FEASIBILITY
STUDY YOU&apos;LL BE REAFFIRMING
YOUR SUPPORT FOR THE EIGHT TO
ZERO PLAN VOTING YES TO PASS
THIS STUDY WILL ACCOMPLISH TWO
VERY IMPORTANT GOALS.
FIRSTLY, YOU WILL BE SHOWING
THE YOUNG PEOPLE OF OUR CITY
THAT WE CAN NO LONGER GO
FORWARD WITH THE STATUS QUO
ALTERNATIVES THAT ARE NEEDED TO
PROVIDE RELIABLE, AFFORDABLE,
CLEAN POWER.
SECONDLY, WE WILL ALL RECEIVE
THE VITAL INFORMATION ABOUT
WHAT A FULL PUBLIC OUR UTILITY
AND AND THAT&apos;S HOW YOU WILL BE
ABLE TO ACHIEVE FOR OUR CITY.
I SINCERELY HOPE OUR CITY WILL
MOVE FORWARD WITH BOTH SO WE
CAN BRING DEMOCRAT
DECISION-MAKING AUTHORITY BACK
TO THE PEOPLE OF OUR HARBOR AND
ADDRESS THE CLIMATE CRISIS IN A
ROBUST AND AGGRESSIVE WAY.
AFTER ALL, AT THIS POINT IN
TIME THE COST OF MAINTAINING
THE STATUS QUO IS SIMPLY
UNACCEPTABLE.
NOW THIS PAST YEAR I HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO WORK FOR A
STUDENT WITH DISABILITIES HERE
AT U OF M AS A PERSONAL CARE
ASSISTANT THEY HAD TO LIVE IN
THE DORMS BECAUSE ALTHOUGH THEY
WERE MORE EXPENSIVE THAN LOCAL
APARTMENTS, THE DORMS ARE
POWERED BY THE UNIVERSITY NOT
DTT AND AS A RESULT THEY DON&apos;T
HAVE POWER OUTAGES IN THE EVENT
OF AN OUTAGE THE STUDENT WOULD
NOT BE ABLE TO USE THEIR
ELECTRIC WHEELCHAIR TO LEAVE
THEIR THEIR HOUSE THEIR
ELECTRIC BED TO JUST GET OUT
OF BED IN THE MORNING OR ANY
OF THE ELECTRICAL MEDICAL
DEVICES WHICH ARE POTENTIALLY
LIFE SAVING AND EMERGENCY
SITUATIONS.
THE SITUATION IS NOT UNCOMMON
AND EXISTS FOR MANY RESIDENTS
WHO HAVE DISABILITIES WHO DO AT
HOME DIALYSIS AND WHO RELY ON
THE VARIOUS ELECTRIC APPLIANCES
TO HELP KEEP PEOPLE SAFE AND
HEALTHY TO ALL OF THOSE PEOPLE
BY VOTING YES YOU WILL BE
SAYING WE CARE ABOUT YOU AND WE
ARE WORKING TO HELP.
I LOOK FORWARD TO THE CONTINUED
WORK BETWEEN PUBLIC POWER AND
EVERY MEMBER OF THIS COUNCIL
AND I EXPECT THAT YOU WILL
ENSURE MULTIPLE OPPORTUNITIES
FOR PUBLIC ENGAGEMENT
THROUGHOUT THE FEASIBILITIES
PROCESS.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH FOR YOUR
TIME AND POWER TO THE PEOPLE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS JONATHAN
LORD
.
&gt;&gt; HELLO, I&apos;M JONATHAN, THE
PRESIDENT OF WARD FIVE AND I&apos;M
RUNNING FOR CITY COUNCIL
INDEPENDENT CANDIDATE.
HELLO, NICE TO MEET YOU ALL.
&gt;&gt; I AM HERE I&apos;M HERE TO BRING
AWARENESS TO A BIG PROBLEM
YOU&apos;RE ALL FACING TODAY.
THIS PROBLEM WE ALL HAVE TO
CARRY WITH US EVERY DAY.
WHAT I&apos;M REFERRING TO IS THIS
YES.
THE DOLLAR WHAT&apos;S THE PROBLEM
WITH THE DOLLAR IN A NUTSHELL
IT&apos;S DYING.
WHAT AM I TALKING ABOUT?
WELL, I&apos;M SURE MANY OF YOU HAVE
BEEN TO THE GROCERY STORE
LATELY.
RISING PRICES IS ANOTHER WAY TO
DESCRIBE THE LOSS OF PURCHASING
POWER.
THIS EROSION IS THE RESULT
OF AN INFLATED MONEY SUPPLY
GENERATED OUT OF THIN AIR AND
BACKED BY EXTREME LEVELS
OF DEBT.
THE DOLLAR LOSING ITS
PURCHASING POWER HAS PROFOUND
IMPLICATIONS FOR EVERYONE.
EVERY BUSINESS IN EVERY
GOVERNMENT OUT THERE THE COST
OF EVERYTHING IS RISING.
JUST LOOK AT THE MARKET.
RATES ARE RISING AT INTEREST
RATES ARE A PREDICTOR OF FUTURE
INFLATION EXPECTATIONS AND A
SIGN OF ERODING FAITH IN THE
ABILITY OF THE DEBTOR TO PAY
BACK A DEBT.
WHEN RATES GO UP THE COST
OF BORROWING GOES HIGHER.
THE COST OF PRODUCE GOES HIGHER
AND PRICES RISE EVEN MORE.
WE SHOULD NOT GO ON ASSUMING
THE DOLLAR WILL CONTINUE TO BE
THE WORLD RESERVE CURRENCY.
JUST LOOK JUST A QUICK LOOK AT
GEOPOLITICAL EVENTS UNFOLDING.
WE&apos;LL TELL YOU THIS THE DEBT
BUBBLE IS STARTING TO DEFLATE.
THE ECONOMY IS WEAK AND THE
MARKETS ARE OVERPRICED AS THE
EROSION OF PURCHASING POWER
CONTINUES, THE MIDDLE CLASS AND
POOR WILL FIND IT HARDER TO
MAKE ENDS MEET.
THEY DON&apos;T GENERATE ENOUGH
INCOME.
THEY WILL RESORT TO
UNCONVENTIONAL UNCONVENTIONAL
MEANS TO FEED THEIR FAMILIES.
WAGE INFLATION IS NOT AND WILL
LIKELY NOT KEEP UP WITH PRICE
INFLATION.
HOMELESSNESS WHICH LEADS TO
RISING CRIME COULD KEEP RISING
UNLESS WE PREPARE AND DESIGN
INITIATIVES THAT HELP THESE
PEOPLE.
I FEEL GOING FORWARD THERE ARE
MANY THINGS THE CITY COULD DO
TO PREPARE FOR SUSTAINED
ECONOMIC DOWNTURN.
THE MAIN THING IS JUST TO GET
THIS ON THE RADAR NOW WE CAN&apos;T
STOP A TSUNAMI BUT WE CAN MOVE
TO HIGHER GROUND.
WE SHOULD PRIORITIZE SECURING
CRITICAL RESOURCES LIKE CLEAN
WATER, ENERGY SAFETY AND
SHELTER.
WE NEED TO BE INVESTED IN
WEALTH PRESERVING ASSETS.
WE NEED TO FIND WAYS TO REDUCE
TAXES, SPENDING AND DEBT.
WE NEED TO TEACH OUR CHILDREN
HOW TO GROW FOOD, BUILD THINGS
AND BE INDEPENDENT AND
SELF-SUSTAINING,
SELF-SUSTAINING.
WE NEED TO BLOCK THE TRANSFER
OF OUR WEALTH TO GLOBAL
INSTITUTIONS.
LET&apos;S FOCUS ON OUR LOCAL
ECONOMY AND GROW OUR WEALTH AND
GROW FROM WITHIN AND MAINTAIN
DIVISION OF LABOR.
&gt;&gt; LET&apos;S FOCUS ON COMMUNITY.
LET&apos;S PREPARE THE SAFETY NET
AND BE THERE FOR THEM WHEN THEY
GET US MOST BECAUSE WE NEED
THEM TO BE THERE FOR WHEN WE
WHEN WE NEED IT MOST.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS KATHLEEN
MURPHY.
KATHLEEN MURPHY HER WITH THE
PHONE NUMBER ENDING IN TWO FOUR
OH OH OH MY COMPRESSED STAR
FIXED ON YOUR PHONE, MISS
MURPHY.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
OK, TELL ME THE TAYLOR CITY
COUNCIL MEMBERS AND ATTENDEES
TO THIS MEETING AND CATHY
MURPHY I LIVE WITH 315
MR.
STREET AND OVER BOY ONE ON
THREE I WANT TO SPEAK IN FAVOR
OF THE FEASIBILITY STUDY IS UP
FOR A VOTE TODAY.
MANY, MANY THANKS TO THE CITY
STAFFERS IN THE OFFICE
OF SUSTAINABILITY INNOVATION
FOR SENDING OUT THE RFP REQUEST
FOR PROPOSAL AND DIRECTING THE
COMPANY TO DO THE JOB LIKE
ENERGY AND ARE TWO VERY
REPUTABLE COMPANIES THEY WILL
RAGIA THE CITY WILL BE
PARTICULARLY POWERFUL FOR
GENERATES THE GAS INDUSTRY WELL
IN LIBRARY POTENTIAL PATHWAYS
FOR THE CITY TO REACH ITS GOAL
OF 100 PERCENT RENEWABLE
ENERGY.
IT WILL CONVERT TO PHASE ONE
STUDY INTO ESTABLISHING A
MUNICIPAL UTILITY WHICH WOULD
SERVICE ALL OF ENDEAVOR WHILE
PROVIDING 100 PERCENT RENEWABLE
ELECTRICITY.
THE LIGHTS WILL BE A GREAT
ANALYSIS OF THE PROPOSED
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY OR
NEW THIS COMPREHENSIVE
FEASIBILITY STUDY SHOULD GIVE
THE CITY A CLEAR VISION OF WHAT
IS BEST ARE FOR REDUCING THE
CITY&apos;S ELECTRICITY.
I URGE YOU TO PROVIDE THE
FUNDING FOR THE WORK AND START
AS SOON AS POSSIBLE.
THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS GUY TUSHKA
PARTNER GUS TESTI
CO THE PHONE
NUMBER ENDING AND FOUR SEVEN
ONE FOUR SEVEN CRESTAR SIX.
&gt;&gt; I MEAN YOUR PHONE.
&gt;&gt; HELLO.
HELLO.
HI GOOD EVENING.
GO AHEAD.
GOOD EVENING.
MY NAME IS DOSTOEVSKI 1-3
MUNTARI I REPRESENT AND I
VISIBLE A LOCAL CHAPTER OF THE
NATIONAL INDIVISIBLE GROUP THAT
FORMED AFTER 2016 AFTER THE
ELECTION OF DONALD TRUMP.
OUR GOAL IS ROADBLOCKED AND
DEFEAT HIM AND THREAT TO OUR
FUTURE.
HE WAS DEFEATED IN 2020 AND NOW
WE&apos;RE TRYING TO HELP HIM LOSE
AGAIN IN 2024 OVER A YEAR AND I
WILL PASS THE RESOLUTION IN
SUPPORT FEASIBILITY STUDY FOR A
PUBLIC ELECTRIC UTILITY AND
WE&apos;RE GLAD TO SEE THAT THE CITY
IS MAKING PROGRESS.
WE HOPE THAT CITY COUNCIL WILL
FULLY FUND THIS PROPOSAL FROM
THE OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY
AND THE IS CONCERNED BECAUSE
OF THE CLIMATE EMERGENCY.
OBVIOUSLY AND ITS THREAT TO OUR
FUTURE AS ARE MANY, MANY IN OUR
THERE&apos;S AN ALARMING LACK
OF SIGNIFICANT ACTION BY THE
STATE AND FEDERAL LEVELS.
BUT IN ORDER TO DO ITS PART
LOCALLY BY NO LONGER BURNING
COAL AND GAS TO GENERATE
ELECTRICITY, IT COULD INSPIRE
OTHER CITIES TO DO THE SAME.
THE PUBLIC ELECTROCUTED IS THE
ONLY WAY WE CAN DO THIS BY 2030
.
A YEAR AGO THERE ARE OVER 40
PUBLIC ELECTRIC UTILITIES IN
MICHIGAN RIGHT NOW AND MOST ARE
LOWER RATES, FEWER OUTAGES AND
BETTER SERVICE.
FOR EXAMPLE, TRAVERSE CITY,
LANSING, HOWARD AND CHELSEA
CHELSEA IN CHELSEA THEY PAY 40
PERCENT LESS THAN WE DO AND
THEY DO NOT HAVE A POWER
FAILURE IN LAST WEEK&apos;S STORM
LIKE WE DID OR WENT BECAUSE WE
SERVICE CHELSEA THE OPERATORS
TAKES GOOD CARE OF THEM.
WE HOPE THE FEASIBILITY STUDY
WILL SHOW HARVARD TO JOIN THEM
BY BUILDING A PUBLIC ELECTRIC
UTILITY.
OUR STATE REPRESENTATIVE YOUSEF
RABIE SUPPORTS A PUBLIC
ELECTRIC UTILITY AS DOES OUR
STATE SENATOR JEFF ERWIN.
&gt;&gt; HE PLANS TO BURN COAL TO
2040 IF YOU CAN BELIEVE IT,
THIS IS TOTALLY UNACCEPTABLE.
IT&apos;S SEEKS TO CUT IT ALSO SEEKS
TO CUT THE REIMBURSEMENT RATE
FOR ROOFTOP SOLAR FROM EIGHT
CENTS TO FOUR CENTS.
IT SEEKS TO RAISE RATES YET
AGAIN.
THE POWER THAT WE MUST BUY IT
WANTS TO CHARGE ROOFTOP SOLAR
OWNERS A MONTHLY FEE OF SIXTY
FIVE TO 100 TO CONNECT TO THE
GRID THESE CHANGES WILL MAKE
ROOFTOP SOLAR UNATTRACTIVE WHEN
WE NEED TO QUICKLY TRANSITION
TO RENEWABLES.
WE ARE ALARMED BY DENHA
BEHAVIOR LEARNED A LOT ABOUT
OUR BELOVED WANT TO SLOW AND
STOP THE CAR EMERGENCY AND HAVE
A BETTER FUTURE TO VOLUNTEER
WITH ANN ARBOR REPUBLIK TO HELP
TRANSITION OUR ELECTRICAL
GENERATION TO 100 PERCENT
RENEWABLE ZERO CARBON BY 2030
ZERO.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; OUR NEXT SPEAKER IS ROBERT
BENKO
.
HOLLER AT THE PHONE NUMBER
AGAIN ONE FOUR SEVEN STORE
BENKO CRESTAR SAID ON YOUR
PHONE GO AHEAD.
&gt;&gt; OH THIS IS ROBERT JEFF,
INVENTOR OF 213 THOUSAND STREET
AGAIN I PUT YOU ON A RECENTLY
PASSED AMENDMENT TO REMOVE
RESTRICTIONS ON THE MARIJUANA
LICENSE THE NUMBERS OF LICENSES
PER LOT.
I&apos;M TRYING TO RECTIFY COUNCIL
MEMBERS.
THIS IS COMMENTS DURING THE
FIRST AND SECOND READING OF THE
AMENDMENT AND THE PLANNING
COMMISSION&apos;S DESCRIPTION OF THE
AMENDMENT AND THAT&apos;S HOW
COUNCIL MEMBER STATES THAT
THERE ARE A NUMBER OF CHANGES
THAT THE CHANGES ARE ONLY FOR
INDUSTRIAL LIGHT INDUSTRIAL THE
COMMISSION STATES THE CHANGES
ARE FOR OUR OWN INDUSTRY.
JUST ONE EXAMPLE FROM THE
AUGUST 15TH MEETING QUOTE FROM
MULTIMEMBER JUST SO THAT IS ONE
THING IF NOT ON A LAND OWNED
INDUSTRIAL YOU DON&apos;T GET MORE
THAN ONE PERSON FROM THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DESCRIPTION
THAT WAS PROVIDED FOR THE
PUBLIC HEARING ON THE MATTER
BELIEVING THAT THE WILL ALLOW
ANY NUMBER OF MARIJUANA
FACILITIES ON A SINGLE LOT BUT
CURRENTLY A MAXIMUM OF ONE TO
FIVE PERMITTED DEPENDING ON THE
ZONING DISTRICT IN WHICH A LOT
OF LOCATED AT THIS POINT CAN BE
A GREAT MORE BUT THE FED INTO
THREE MINUTES.
MY POINT IS THAT I BELIEVE WE
MADE THAT WHILE THERE WERE
LIMITS ON THE NUMBER
OF LICENSES AND SPECIFIC
DISTRICT RESIDENTS BEFORE THE
AMENDMENT, THOSE HAVE BEEN
REMOVED WHICH DOES NOT MATCH
THE AMENDMENT DISCUSSION IN
COUNCIL OF LOCAL RESIDENTS ARE
BEING IMPACTED.
ADDITIONALLY WITH THE FEEDBACK
TO THEM OR FROM THEM IN THIS
PROCESS.
PERSONALLY I&apos;M FURTHER
SURPRISED THAT THERE WASN&apos;T
FURTHER DISCUSSION BY OTHER
COUNCIL MEMBERS THAT WERE
FAMILIAR WITH THE AMENDMENT
EITHER DENHA OR MAYBE IN
BETWEEN THE FIRST AND SECOND
READINGS TO COUNCIL MEMBER.
YES, I THOUGHT THAT WITH THIS
PROPOSED AMENDMENT FULLY
EXPLAINED AND DISCUSSED IN
COUNCIL THANK THANK YOU.
ARE THERE COMMUNICATIONS TODAY
FROM COUNCIL CONTROVERT OLSEN
THANK YOU.
I JUST WANT ALERT RESIDENTS
OF WARD FOUR TO PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT MEETING THAT IS
HAPPENING TUESDAY, SEPTEMBER
13TH FROM SIX TO SEVEN P.M.
THERE IS SOME WORK BEING DONE
PLANNED OR PLANNED FOR TWENTY
TWENTY THREE ON THE STREETS
OF SOUTH SEVENTH AND GREENVIEW
JUST SOUTH OF ZION CHURCH.
FOR THOSE WHO KNOW THE AREA
THIS IS SURROUNDING THAT LITTLE
SPRING FED LAKE OVER THERE
THERE&apos;S INFORMATION ON MY
WEBSITE ABOUT YOU CAN SEARCH
THE CITY WEBSITE FOR IT ON ITS
THE PROJECT IS CALLED S SEVENTH
STREET AND GREENVIEW DRIVE
PROJECT.
THERE&apos;S GOING BE DISCUSSION
OF VARIOUS STRATEGIES TO MAKE
IT SAFER INCLUDING REMOVING
MOVING ON STREET PARKING,
IMPROVING CROSSWALKS AND
PUTTING IN SOME PARTS.
I THINK SOME RESIDENTS MIGHT
HAVE SOME INPUT TO SHARE ON
THAT TOPIC, THINKS COUNCIL
MEMBER UMALI.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO CALL ATTENTION
SOME ISSUES AT THE FIFTH WARD
IS EXPERIENCING WHAT CALLS THE
SERVICE TO NINE ONE ONE IN
OTHER PUBLIC SAFETY CONCERNS
THERE EXPERIENCING UM IN AROUND
US PARK 415 WASHINGTON AND
OTHER AREAS UM AND I WAS IN A
MEETING THIS LAST WEEK WITH
POLICE CHIEF METZGER&apos;S AND AND
COUNCIL MEMBER BRIGG&apos;S TO
DISCUSS THIS ISSUE AND UM I
FEEL THAT AS IS THIS COUNCIL
GOES FORWARD AND IS THE UNARMED
EMERGENCY RESPONSE PLAN IS
DEVELOPED AND DEPLOYED UM, MANY
OF THESE CONCERNS BE TAKEN INTO
ACCOUNT.
UM, I ALSO FEEL NOT SURE IF
THERE IS ACTION BEING TAKEN ON
THIS UM THAT CAN BE DONE WITH
WEST PARK QUITE FRANKLY PUTTING
UP A CHAIN LINK FENCE AND IN
THE WAY IT LOOKS RIGHT NOW IS
RATHER IT LOOKS IT JUST LOOKS
TERRIBLE.
I THINK IT INVITES A ACTIVITY
THAT IS PROBABLY UNDESIRABLE
AND QUITE FRANKLY IT&apos;S IT&apos;S SAD
THAT THAT LANDMARK SITS IN THE
SHAPE THAT IT&apos;S IN AND SO ALONG
WITH OTHER PROPERTIES THAT THE
CITY OWNS, I FEEL IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT THAT WE TAKE A BETTER
LOOK AT THIS THIS PARTICULAR
AREA AND AS WE LOOK AT ALL OUR
AREAS BUT RIGHT NOW SITUATION
IS IS UH IS GETTING A LITTLE
SEEDY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER
GRISWOLD.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I WANT TO ANNOUNCE THAT
TOMORROW I WILL BE LEAVING FOR
NEW YORK CITY.
I WAS IN NEW YORK CITY RIGHT
BEFORE THE PANDEMIC ATTENDING A
VISION ZERO CONFERENCE AND I
WILL BE RETURNING TOMORROW NOT
ONLY TO VISIT MY NEW GRANDSON
BUT ALSO TO TALK TO SOME
OFFICIALS AND LOOK AT SOME
OF THEIR VISION ZERO
INFRASTRUCTURE NEW YORK CITY.
IT&apos;S ONE OF THE LEADERS
SPEAKING OF VISION ZERO, I WANT
TO READ SOME STATS AND MOST
PEOPLE KNOW THAT IF YOU&apos;RE
MAKING AN INVESTMENT YOU WANT
THE LARGEST RETURN ON YOUR
INVESTMENT, WHETHER IT&apos;S
DOLLARS OR INVESTING IN SAFETY
IMPROVEMENTS FROM THE FEDERAL
HIGHWAY ADMINISTRATION, HIGH
VISIBILITY CROSSWALKS CAN
REDUCE PEDESTRIAN INJURY
CRASHES BY UP TO 40 PERCENT.
INTERSECTION LIGHTING CAN
REDUCE PEDESTRIAN CRASHES UP TO
FORTY TWO PERCENT ADVANCE YIELD
AND STOP MARKINGS AND SIGNS CAN
REDUCE PEDESTRIAN CRASHES UP TO
TWENTY FIVE.
THOSE ARE BIG NUMBERS AND WE
SHOULD NOT IGNORE THEM AND SO I
WILL BE BRINGING FORWARD A
RESOLUTION ASKING STAFF TO
IDENTIFY AND PROVIDE BUDGET
NUMBERS FOR HOW MUCH IT WOULD
COST TO LIGHT ALL OF OUR
CROSSWALKS IN OUR SCHOOL WALK
ZONES WHICH IS SIMPLY
DETERMINED BY ONE POINT FIVE
MILES FROM THE SCHOOL.
LASTLY, I WANT TO THANK STAFF
FOR ALL OF THEIR EFFORT ON
CHAPTER FORTY WHICH IS THE
VISIBILITY ORDINANCE.
I KNOW IT&apos;S BEEN A LONG TIME.
PROGRESS IS BEING MADE AND I
EXPECT IT TO COME FORWARD SOON.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH I.
I WANT TO JUST THANK ALL OF THE
RESIDENTS WHO ARE PARTICIPATING
IN THE CITIZENS LEADERSHIP
COUNCIL AND WHO HOSTED A
REALLY, REALLY PRODUCTIVE EVENT
ON THURSDAY NIGHT AROUND THE
ONE TWENTY THREE ONE TWENTY ONE
SORRY E CATHERINE DEVELOPMENT.
IT WAS A GREAT EVENING
OF REMINDING US WHAT HAD BEEN
IN THAT NEIGHBORHOOD AND IT WAS
A THERE WAS AN EXCELLENT
VISIONING EXERCISE OF WHAT
COULD BE IN THE ONE TWENTY ONE
EAST CATHERINE DEVELOPMENT.
SO THAT WAS GREAT.
THERE WILL BE A FEW MORE I
BELIEVE OF THOSE UM PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT SESSIONS AND THEY&apos;RE
VERY DIFFERENT FROM OUR USUAL
STYLE SO I RECOMMEND THAT
EVERYONE TAKE ADVANTAGE OF ONE
COUNSELOR HAYNER OH THANK YOU.
JUST A COUPLE REMARKS FOR FOLKS
IN WARD ONE IF YOU DON&apos;T KNOW
ALREADY VANDERMEER BRIDGE THE
PEDESTRIAN AND CAR BRIDGE THAT
CONNECTS BARTON WHITMORE LAKE
INTERSECTION WITH BANDOLEER
PARK IS CLOSED UNTIL LATE FALL
THERE IN THE SECOND PHASE THAT
STARTED SEPTEMBER SIX AND IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S CLOSED UP.
AND SO IF YOU IF YOU USE THAT
TO GET AROUND A LOT OF PEOPLE
DO THE LOOP AND SO ON AND USE
IT TO GET TO WORK IN NORTHMAN
AND SO YOU GOT TO KIND OF GO
THE OTHER WAY AROUND PAST THE
CASCADES I GUESS IS THE BEST
WAY TO PUT IT AND SO LATE FALL
SO THAT BRIDGES IN NEED
OF REPAIR AND THEY&apos;RE ALSO
DOING THE WORK ON A YOU KNOW
FOURTEEN BRIDGE.
SO THERE&apos;S A LOT GOING ON IN
THAT AREA.
SO JUST USE CAUTION.
SECONDLY, THERE&apos;S THURSDAY AT
FIVE THIRTY PM IS A WORK
SESSION AT THE THE NORTH SIDE
FOOD FOR US THE PERMACULTURE
FOREST UP THERE LEZZY PARK
BEHIND ARROWOOD AND EVERY
SUNDAY THEY&apos;RE DOING A WALK
THROUGH WHERE YOU CAN LEARN
ABOUT DIFFERENT TYPES OF PLANTS
AND THINGS THAT ARE GROWING
THERE AND IT&apos;S IT&apos;S REALLY
EXCELLENT.
THEY&apos;VE HAD GREAT TURNOUT FOR
IT AND THESE WORK SESSIONS ALSO
GET A LOT OF TURNOUT AND
EVERYONE&apos;S WELCOME.
IT&apos;S THURSDAY FIVE THIRTY AND
YOU KNOW, TOOLS ARE PROVIDED
YOU CAN BRING GLOVES AND WATER
WHATEVER YOU FEEL YOU NEED
YOURSELF.
BUT JUST GETTING READY FOR THE
FALL WE&apos;RE GOING INTO THE
FOURTH YEAR THAT WILL BE THE
FOURTH YEAR NEXT YEAR I GUESS.
AND IT IS REALLY KIND OF TAKEN
OFF AND IT&apos;S FOUND A KIND
OF WELCOME HOME UP THERE IN THE
NORTH COMMUNITY.
SO I APPRECIATE EVERYBODY WHO&apos;S
WHO&apos;S YOU KNOW, PITCHED FOR
THAT SO JUST A COUPLE OF WORD
ONE COMMENTS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU COUNTS NO SONG
THIS SATURDAY IS THE SECOND
ANNUAL ASIAN AND
AFRICAN-AMERICAN SOLIDARITY
PICNIC AND THIS YEAR WILL BE
PLANNED IN PITTSFIELD TOWNSHIP
.
IT&apos;S SATURDAY FROM ONE TO FIVE
THAT COINCIDES WITH THE MYDATA
MOON FESTIVAL.
SO I&apos;M REALLY EXCITED TO SEE
FANS AND LEADERS GET TOGETHER
AND CELEBRATE THE HOLIDAY AND
CELEBRATE EACH OTHER AND
CELEBRATE THE WORK THAT WE HAVE
AHEAD OF US SOMETHING I ALSO
WANT TO POINT OUT THAT WE ARE
NEARING THE END OF OUR SECOND
SIX MONTH EXTENSION TO FUNDING
OUR NEW HUMAN SERVICES
PARTNERSHIP WITH THE COUNTY.
I AM WORRIED I ENCOURAGE
EVERYONE TO CONTACT OUR COUNTY
REPRESENTATIVES OR COUNTY
COMMISSIONERS ON THIS AND
TRYING TO SEE HOW WE CAN BEST
SERVE OUR MOST VULNERABLE
POPULATIONS.
I&apos;D RATHER NOT SEE CUTS IN OUR
WARMING CENTERS OR OURS IN OUR
WARMING CENTERS AS WINTER
APPROACHES.
IF YOU&apos;RE FAMILIAR WITH HOW
NONPROFITS FROM THE NONPROFIT
FUNDING CYCLES WORK, THIS IS
THIS IS THE BEGINNING OF YOU AN
ACTIVE FUNDRAISING SEASON.
SO I ENCOURAGE FOLKS IN THE
COMMUNITY TO REACH OUT TO THESE
ESSENTIAL PARTNERS WHO HELP US
WITH OUR HOUSING FIRST POLICY
WHICH IS REALLY COMMENDABLE FOR
TO OUR HOUSING COMMISSION AND
BEING ABLE TO HOUSE FOLKS OVER
A YEAR AND KEEPING THEM HOUSED
AT I THINK IT WAS OVER NIGHT
ALMOST 90 PERCENT RATE WHICH IS
HIGHER THAN THE NATIONAL
AVERAGE FOR THAT WORK TO
CONTINUE WE NEED TO TAKE A
CLOSER LOOK AT SUSTAINABLE
FUNDING.
THE CITY HAS ALREADY DONE
CONSIDERABLE WORK IN DEDICATING
ARPA FUNDING TO THIS AND I&apos;D
LIKE TO CHALLENGE OUR COMMUNITY
MEMBERS TO REALLY LOOK INTO
INVESTING AND MAKING SURE THAT
WE&apos;VE GOT FOOD SECURITY, MAKING
SURE WE HAVE STAFF OR PROVIDERS
AND CONTINUE IN GOOD FAITH
PARTNERSHIP SO APPRECIATIVE IF
IF YOU&apos;RE IF THE FOLKS HERE AT
THIS BODY COUNCIL REACH OUT TO
COMMISSIONERS FOR THE
COMMUNICATION FROM COUNCIL
COUNCILMAN GRANT, THANK YOU.
I&apos;D LIKE TO FIRST THINK THAT IN
OUR PUBLIC SCHOOLS ARE
ADDRESSING SOME CRITICAL
TRANSPORTATION CONCERNS AROUND
BUSING THAT HAVE THAT HAVE BEEN
PRESENT FOR THE LAST YEAR AND
IT WAS NICE TO SEE SOME
OF THOSE RESOLVED.
SO THANK YOU.
I ALSO WANT TO JUST CALL OUT
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT ARE
HAPPENING AROUND OUR H0 PLAN
THIS FALL.
ONE NEXT WEEK IS THE PLANT
BASED CHALLENGE SO YOU CAN TAKE
ADVANTAGE OF SOME OF THE
WONDERFUL LOCAL FOOD THAT WE
HAVE IN OUR COMMUNITY.
SO CHECK THAT OUT.
I ALSO JUST WANT TO GIVE A
PERSONAL THANKS TO THE ENTIRE
FIRE DEPARTMENT FOR THE WORK
THAT THEY DID IN MY
NEIGHBORHOOD AFTER THE STORM WE
HAD SOME BEAUTIFULLY TRAGIC
SITUATION AND THEY HANDLED IT
WITH A LOT OF GRACE AND
SENSITIVITY AND WANT TO
PERSONALLY THANK BATTALION
CHIEF HUGHES FOR HELPING OUT MY
NEIGHBORS.
HE WAS IN MY BACKYARD AND AND
DID A FABULOUS SO THANK YOU TO
BATTALION CHIEF HUGHES AND AND
THAT&apos;S IT.
THANKS FOR THE COMMUNICATION
FROM COUNCIL.
I&apos;D LIKE TO RECOMMEND THE
FOLLOWING NOMINATIONS FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TO THE DESIGN
REVIEW BOARD WENDY RAMZAN TO
THE ENERGY COMMISSION GABRIEL
HARPE AND TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
CLAIRE MCKENNA AND NOW BEFORE
US THE CONSENT AGENDA MAY HAVE
A MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CONSENT AGENDA MOVE BY ACCOUNTS
,REDUCE SECOND BY COUNSEL
AMBER GRISWOLD DISCUSSION
OF THE CONSENT AGENDA BY
NELSON.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO PULCINELLA
FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL MAHINA
THANKS.
I MEAN JUST A COUPLE
OF COMMENTS C8 I ENCOURAGE
EVERYONE TO SUPPORT THIS TO
APPLY FOR GRANT TO HELP THE OLD
FOURTH WARD HISTORIC DISTRICT
DO A SURVEY OF ALL THE
BUILDINGS THERE AND IT&apos;S A VERY
DENSELY POPULATED AREA AND IT
IS AS IT&apos;S AS IT SAYS IN THE
TITLE TO HISTORIC DISTRICT AND
WE OFTEN OVERLOOK THE VALUE
THAT HISTORIC DISTRICTS HAVE IN
COMMUNITIES.
AND WHEN YOU LOOK AT THAT AND
YOU SEE A MIX OF FOLKS WHO LIVE
IN THAT AREA AND THE VARIOUS
HOUSING TYPES NEW AND OLD AND
SO ON AND AND COMMERCE AND
EVERYTHING THAT HAPPENS IS A
VERY VIBRANT AREA OF THE CITY.
AND SO I&apos;M HOPING THAT THAT WE
WHEN WE FINALLY GET AROUND TO
DOING OUR COMPREHENSIVE ANDYS
PLAN, WE WE LOOK AT THE VALUE
THAT HISTORIC DISTRICTS ADD TO
THAT.
SO I&apos;M CLEARLY GOING TO SUPPORT
THAT AND THEN THE OTHER THING I
JUST WANT TO MAKE A QUICK
COMMENT ON SAY 13 WE HAVE THE
BYLAWS, THE RENTERS COMMISSION
BEFORE US AND MOST OF THIS JUST
SORT OF WROTE THINGS WHERE WE
JUST MAKE SURE THAT ALL THE
BYLAWS ARE THE SAME AND THEY&apos;RE
ACTUALLY APPROVED BECAUSE IT&apos;S
A NEW NGUIU COMMISSION.
AND YOU KNOW, I&apos;VE HAD SOME
COMMENTS SOME OF THE FOLKS HERE
ABOUT THE RIGHT TO RENEW THAT.
&gt;&gt; YOU KNOW, IT CALLS FOR A
COUPLE FOLKS WHO ACTUALLY OWN
PROPERTIES LANDLORDS SUCH AS
THE WORD IS USED TO BE SEATED
ON THERE AND WE HAVEN&apos;T SEEN
THEM YET AND I HOPE THAT WE DO
AND I HOPE THAT WE GET SOME
FOLKS WHO ARE NEUTRALLY, YOU
KNOW, POLITICALLY NEUTRAL AND
CONCERNED ABOUT THE WELL-BEING
OF THEIR BOTH THEIR PROPERTIES
AND THE TENANTS WHO INHABIT
THEM.
SO IT IS ANOTHER THING ANOTHER
THING ANOTHER COMMISSION HERE
THAT GIVES PEOPLE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR INPUT.
&gt;&gt; COUNCIL MEMBER AMAWI I GUESS
JUST REAL BRIEFLY SAY TO I&apos;LL
BE SUPPORTING IT BUT I JUST
WANT TO BRING ATTENTION TO PAST
EXPERIENCES WE&apos;VE HAD WITH THE
MARATHON AND FOLKS UNAWARE
OF THIS IN AND LOCKED INTO
THEIR HOMES, LOCKED INTO THEIR
HOMES CAN&apos;T LEAVE SOME FOLKS
WHO HAVE HAD MEDICAL
EMERGENCIES OR JUST CAUGHT OFF
GUARD BY THIS.
SO I JUST HOPE THAT IN WHATEVER
MEANS AND IN FASHION THAT THE
INFORMATION IS DISSEMINATED TO
THE RESIDENTS THAT ARE AFFECTED
IN THESE ROADS.
ARE WE GOING TO BE CLOSED FOR
THE MARATHON OCTOBER 2ND AND I
HOPE EVERYONE HAS A FUN, FUN
SAFE MARATHON AND THE WEATHER
IS DECENT FOR THE DISCUSSION
THE CONSENT AGENDA.
COUNCILOR BRIGS, I JUST WANTED
TO DRAW ATTENTION REAL QUICKLY
TO SEE A7 WHICH IS A RESOLUTION
TO APPROVE A GRANT APPLICATIONS
USDOT
SAFE STREETS FOR ALL
DISCRETIONARY GRANT PROGRAMS
BASICALLY THIS IS FOR A VISION
ZERO IMPLEMENTATION GRANT KUDOS
TO STAFF FOR PUTTING THIS
TOGETHER.
IT SHOULD BE GOING OUT SOON.
WE&apos;VE TALKED ABOUT THIS IN
POLICY COMMITTEE AND THERE&apos;S
DEFINITELY A DESIRE TO SORT
OF LEVERAGE AS MUCH SUPPORT AS
WE CAN FOR THIS FROM OUR
POLITICAL ALLIES THE 22 MILLION
POTENTIAL TWENTY TWO MILLION
DOLLAR GRANT FOR VISION ZERO
WORK IN OUR COMMUNITY SO
IMPROVING OUR BICYCLE AND
PEDESTRIAN ENVIRONMENT, MAKING
OUR STREETS MORE ACCESSIBLE FOR
ALL USERS AND IT&apos;S WORTH NOTING
THAT THIS GRANT APPLICATION
THERE&apos;S AN OPPORTUNITY TO APPLY
FOR EITHER AN IMPLEMENTATION
GRANT OR A PLANNING GRANT AND
WE ARE IN THE STRONG POSITION
OF BEING ABLE TO APPLY FOR A
IMPLEMENTATION GRANT BECAUSE
OF ALL THE STRONG PLANNING WORK
THAT WE HAVE DONE TO DATE FOR
THE DISCUSSION THE CONSENT
AGENDA ON PHYSICAL CENTAGE
DECEPTION C11 PCI POSED THE
CONCEPT AGENDA WITH THE
EXCEPTION OF C11 IS APPROVED
WITH 11 COUNCIL MEMBERS PRESENT
ALL VOTE IN THE AFFIRMATIVE
THAT SATISFIED THE EIGHT VOTE
REQUIREMENT WITH RESPECT TO
EIGHT AND SEATTLE IN C11
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT AN EASY
RESOLUTION TO ACCEPT AN ACCESS
EASEMENT APPROPRIATE FORTY
SEVEN THOUSAND SEVEN HUNDRED
TEN DOLLARS AND THE GENERAL
FUND THAT APPROVED
REIMBURSEMENT OF ROAD
MAINTENANCE COST TO THE DAVOREN
ON THE PARK ASSOCIATION BY
COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON SECOND BY
COUNCIL MEMBER FOR DENHA
DISCUSSION OF C11 CALCINEURIN
NELSON.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
I JUST WANTED TO ASK FOR A
POSTPONEMENT OF THIS BECAUSE
THERE WAS A LITTLE BIT OF A
SNAFU AROUND THIS AGENDA ITEM.
IT WASN&apos;T ACTUALLY ANY OF THE
MATERIALS ATTACHED TO IT DIDN&apos;T
GET PUBLIC.
WE&apos;RE NOT PUBLIC FACING UNTIL
ABOUT AN HOUR BEFORE OUR
MEETING.
IT WAS IT WAS JUST A MISTAKE
AND I I ASKED I GUESS I&apos;M
ASKING FOR FEEDBACK IF THIS IS
PRESSING OR IF THERE&apos;S GOING TO
BE ANY HARM DONE IN POSTPONING
IT TO THE NEXT MEETING.
WE ARE OKAY WITH POSTPONING IT
FROM THE CITY ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE
AND I&apos;M NOT QUITE SURE WHERE
THE GLITCH HAPPENED BUT IT WAS
A GLITCH AND I APOLOGIZE.
YEAH, I JUST I JUST FEEL
STRONGLY ABOUT THE THINGS ON
OUR AGENDA SHOULD BE AVAILABLE
TO THE PUBLIC AND FOR US TO
REVIEW BEFORE OUR MEETING.
SO I WOULD LIKE TO POSTPONE IT
TO OUR NEXT MEETING WHICH I
THINK IS SEPTEMBER 19TH.
IS THAT RIGHT?
SECONDED BY WE&apos;RE ALLOWING
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
HAYNER POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH I WOULD JUST COMMENT
THAT SINCE WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
POSTPONING IT I WOULD ASK STAFF
TO LOOK INTO THE POTENTIAL
COORDINATION OF THIS ROAD
MAINTENANCE PROJECT BECAUSE
TOMORROW NIGHT I&apos;M PLANNING
COMMISSION.
THEY&apos;RE DISCUSSING THE ANN
ARBOR VILLAGE PROJECT, THE
RICHARDSON BROTHERS PROJECT
WHICH IS COMPLETE TOTALLY
ADJACENT AND ACCESSED BY THIS
ROAD AND IT&apos;S EFFECTIVELY GOING
TO TAKE US FIFTY FIVE SOME
ACRES OF CURRENT FORESTED AND
VARIOUS OPEN SPACE AND TURN IT
INTO A GIANT HOUSING
DEVELOPMENT IF IT&apos;S APPROVED.
AND WE KIND OF HAVE A HISTORY
IN THE CITY OF FIXING THE ROAD
AND THEN THEY PUT A GIANT
BUILDING RIGHT NEXT TO IT AND
DESTROY THE ROAD AND SO I WOULD
JUST ASK IF STAFF COULD TAKE A
LOOK AT THE COORDINATION OF THE
PLANNING IF THIS PROJECT MOVES
FORWARD, IF THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT SHOULD BE HELD OFF UNTIL
AFTER THEY DESTROY THE ROAD
FURTHER, IT JUST SEEMS LIKE I
HATE TO FIX THINGS TWICE.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S ALL FOR THE
DISCUSSION OF THE POSTPONEMENT
ON FAVOR POSED IT IS POSTPONED.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE BEFORE WE HAD NO
PUBLIC HEARINGS TODAY AND SO WE
HAVE BEFORE US THE REGULAR
SESSION MEETING MINUTES
OF AUGUST 15, 20 22 MAY HAVE
MENTIONED PLEASE TO APPROVE
THESE MINUTES MOVE BY COUNCILOR
JUST SICKENED SECOND BY COUNCIL
MEMBER HAYNER DISCUSSION OF THE
MINUTES OF FABER POST THE
MINUTES ARE APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; SEE WHAT AN AUDIENCE TO ADD
SECTION EIGHT FIVE THREE ONE TO
CHAPTER ONE ZERO FIVE HOUSING
CODE OF TITLE EIGHT OF THE
CODE THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR MOVE
BY COUNCIL MEMBER NELSON SECOND
BY COUNT THE NUMBER OF DENHA
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF C ONE
COUNCILOR NILLSON THIS I ALSO
MOVING TO POSTPONE.
I WAS ACTUALLY ASKED TO TAKE
THIS OFF THE AGENDA BUT I
WANTED IT TO APPEAR ON THE
AGENDA.
SO THERE IS A PAPER TRAIL
OF HOW THIS IS MOVING FORWARD
WHEN THINGS GET TAKEN OFF THE
AGENDA THEY DISAPPEAR FROM
G-STAR FOREVER.
THE HISTORY IS PART OF THE
HISTORY OF THIS IS THAT WE WE
GOT FEEDBACK FROM THE CITY
ATTORNEY&apos;S OFFICE ON AUGUST
TWENTY SIXTH AND THERE WAS
THERE WAS A SMALL GROUP MEETING
A COMMITTEE WITHIN THE RIGHT
OF THE RENTERS COMMISSION AND
THIS IS GOING TO THE
RECOMMENDED CHANGES ARE NOT IN
THIS ITEM YET BUT THEY&apos;RE GOING
TO BE DISCUSSED AT THE RENTERS
COMMISSION THIS WEEK AND
THERE&apos;S ALSO GOING TO BE A
PRESENTATION AT THE HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICES ADVISORY BOARD
JUST TO MAKE SURE WE ARE ALL ON
THE SAME PAGE.
AND SO I WOULD LIKE TO POSTPONE
THIS ITEM TO SEPTEMBER NINETEEN
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA FOR THE DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT COUNCIL MEMBER
DENHA THANKS.
&gt;&gt; I SUPPORT THIS POSTPONEMENT.
I JUST WANT TO TAKE THIS
OPPORTUNITY TO THANK THE
REENTRIES COMMISSION MEMBERS
WHO ARE PUTTING IN A TON
OF WORK TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS
IS RIGHT WHEN WE DO GET THE
CHANCE TO ASSIST.
I AM INCREDIBLY SUPPORTIVE
OF THE WORK THAT&apos;S HAPPENING
BUT I KNOW THAT WE ALSO WANT TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE PASSED AN
ORDINANCE THAT&apos;S STRONG THAT&apos;S
A LOT OF STAKEHOLDER ENGAGEMENT
AND AND ULTIMATELY HAS LANGUAGE
THAT WE FEEL COMFORTABLE
ENFORCING HERE IN THE CITY AND
SO I KNOW THAT THE CHAIR OF THE
REENTRIES COMMISSION HAS BEEN
PUTTING A LOT OF PERSONAL WORK
DOING THIS BUT THERE&apos;S ALSO A
SUBGROUP OF OF THE RENTERS
COMMISSION THAT HAS BEEN
WORKING WITH WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER NELSON AND I TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE GET TO THE FINAL
LANGUAGE AND AND I KNOW THAT
THEY HAVE BEEN ENGAGING
STAKEHOLDERS FROM HOUSING AND
HUMAN SERVICES AS WAS MENTIONED
TO LANDLORDS FROM THE
WASHINGTON AREA APARTMENT
ASSOCIATION REALLY JUST MAKING
SURE THAT THAT INPUT HAS BEEN
GATHERED AND THAT THIS IS THE
STRONGEST ORDINANCE THAT IT CAN
BE.
SO THANKS TO EVERYBODY IS
PUTTING IN THE WORK INCLUDING
OUR CITY ATTORNEY STAFF WHO HAS
BEEN WORKING DILIGENTLY WITH US
TO MAKE SOME OF THOSE CHANGES
AND AND CONTINUE TO PROVIDE US
WITH LEGAL ADVICE.
THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA
PARTOVI, COUNCIL MEMBER.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M LOWIE.
THANK YOU.
I GUESS IT&apos;S A BIT OF A RELIEF
THAT THIS IS BEING POSTPONED.
APPRECIATE THE SPIRIT WHY IT
WAS PLACED ON THE AGENDA FOR
DISCUSSION UP TO SPEED ON WHERE
THE COMMISSION IS CURRENTLY.
I KNOW THERE HAVE MET MORE
OFTEN THAN THAN THERE IS
STATUTORILY REQUIRED TO MEET TO
MEET THE WORKLOAD OF OF A NEW
COMMISSION.
I&apos;M CONCERNED OF THE THE LACK
OF OF STAKEHOLDER PARTICIPATION
WITH WITH OTHERS IN THE
COMMUNITY REGARDING HOUSING
WHEN IT&apos;S COME TO ISSUES AS
SUCH PROPERTY OWNERS AND OTHER
SMALL SMALLER INVESTOR
LANDLORDS HAVE EXPRESSED A LOT
OF CONCERN OF NOT BEING
INCLUDED IN MANY OF THESE
ORDINANCE CHANGES THAT ARE
BEING PASSED.
AND SO THAT AGAIN I HOPE THAT
THE THEIR CONCERNS ARE GOING TO
BE HEARD AND FOLKS CAN CAN
ALBEIT UNDER THE TENT SO WE CAN
GET TO THE BEST POSSIBLE
SOLUTION.
UM, I DON&apos;T THINK IT&apos;S IT&apos;S AS
WISE OR AS BENEFICIAL TO
EXCLUDE THEM EVEN THOUGH UM I
THE CONCERNS OF OTHERS OF THE
DIFFERENT POWER LEVELS, THE
STRUCTURES BETWEEN THE THE
TENANTS AND LANDLORDS ARE VERY
VAST.
BUT THERE IS THERE IS MANY
OF THOSE RELATIONSHIPS UP AND
DOWN INSTITUTIONS AND AND
ENTITIES THAT GOVERN OUR
SOCIETY SO BUT YET I THINK IN
ORDER TO GET THE BEST POSSIBLE
OUTCOME WE NEED TO TAKE INTO
THOSE CONSIDERATIONS AND HAVE
THOSE CONVERSATIONS AND QUITE
FRANKLY I DON&apos;T THINK ENOUGH
OF THOSE HAVE BEEN HAD TO DATE
.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS.
I JUST WANT TO SAY THANK YOU TO
ALL WHO HAVE BEEN WORKING NURSE
I KNOW THERE&apos;S BEEN A LOT OF A
LOT OF MEETINGS, A LOT
OF DISCUSSION TO GET TO THE
DRAFT THE RENT RIGHT NOW AND
ALSO MOVING FORWARD ON THE THE
DRAFT AMENDMENTS THAT ARE HAVE
BEEN ALREADY DISCUSSED.
THE SUBGROUP IF THERE IS I
DON&apos;T BELIEVE THIS THIS
CURRENTLY PART I THINK IT&apos;S
PART OF THE RENTERS COMMISSION
WORK PLAN MOVING FORWARD.
BUT IF THERE&apos;S ANY OPPORTUNITY
TO ADD INTO US ANY LANGUAGE
AROUND WAIT LISTS, I THINK THAT
THAT WOULD BE REALLY PERTINENT,
ESPECIALLY NONREFUNDABLE
DEPOSIT WAIT LIST.
I KNOW THAT THERE&apos;S BROAD
SUPPORT ACROSS THE COMMUNITY
FROM BOTH LANDLORDS AND RENTERS
ON THIS ISSUE AND IT SEEMS TO
BE INCREDIBLY PROBLEMATIC.
I THINK THE WAITLIST ISSUE IN
GENERAL MAY BE MAYBE IT&apos;S A
IT&apos;S A BIGGER TOPIC THAT NEEDS
TO BE MORE TIME TO WORK THROUGH
THEN WE CAN GET TO BEFORE THE
19TH.
BUT I WOULD BE VERY SUPPORTIVE
OF AN AMENDMENT THAT THAT
INCLUDES THAT WITHIN THIS
COUNCIL.
&gt;&gt; MAHINA YEAH THANKS.
I MEAN I WAS LOOKING FORWARD TO
DISCUSSING THIS TONIGHT BUT
I&apos;LL SUPPORT A POSTPONEMENT.
&gt;&gt; IT IT IS QUITE A BIT TO TAKE
A LOOK AT THE LEGAL PREPARATION
THAT OUR STAFF HAS GIVEN US AND
THE PRECEDENT FOR THIS THE
CONCERNS AROUND ORDINANCE LIKE
THIS YOU KNOW OUTSIDE OF STATE
AND FEDERAL CONSTITUTION
CHALLENGES THAT WE MAY FACE AND
COMMERCE AND CONTRACT LAW AND
SO ON.
I JUST WANT US TO FOCUS ON THE
GOALS BETWEEN NOW AND THEN.
LET&apos;S THINK ABOUT THE GOALS
OF WHAT THIS IS FOR.
WHY ARE WE TALKING ABOUT A
RIGHT TO RENEW YOU KNOW, IS IT
TO PROVIDE STABILITY TO
TENANTS?
&gt;&gt; IS IT YOU KNOW, WE&apos;VE GOT TO
WATCH OUT WHERE IT&apos;S NOT TRYING
TO DO SOME KIND OF BACKDOOR
RENT CONTROL WHICH OF COURSE,
YOU KNOW, WE&apos;RE NOT ALLOWED TO
DO HERE IN THE STATE BUT IN
OTHER STATES THAT HAVE HAD
RATES WHERE YOU ARE ALLOWED
LIKE NEW YORK STATE.
AND YOU KNOW, ITHACA IS A
FAMOUS EXAMPLE OF A SOMEWHAT
SUCCESSFUL WAY TO RENEW.
SO I GUESS BETWEEN NOW
I GUESS
I MEAN I&apos;LL SUPPORT THIS DELAY
JUST BETWEEN NOW AND THEN.
BUT I HOPE TO GET TO DISCUSS IT
WHILE I&apos;M STILL HERE ON COUNCIL
BECAUSE I THINK IT&apos;S AN
IMPORTANT TOPIC.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WE&apos;RE APPROACHING
IT THE RIGHT WAY BUT THERE HAS
BEEN A IN A COMMUNITY LIKE
OURS, IT HAS SUCH A MORE THAN A
MAJORITY OF FOLKS WHO ACTUALLY
RENT INSTEAD OF OWN.
YOU KNOW, THAT&apos;S THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING WE HAVE TO DISCUSS.
SO I LOOK FORWARD TO THAT
CONVERSATION ON THE NINETEENTH
FURTHER DISCUSSION OF THE
POSTPONEMENT ON FAVOR POST
POSTPONEMENT IS APPROVED
.
DO YOU SEE ONE RESOLUTION
EXPRESSING SUPPORT FOR MYSHKIN
SENATE BILL FIFTY EIGHT AND
HOUSE BILL FIVE THREE ONE FOR
HOLDING POLLUTERS ACCOUNTABLE
MOVE BY KOTSENBURG GRISWOLD&apos;S
SECOND BY COUNTERPUNCHER DISH
DISCUSSION PLEASE OF DC ONE
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD
YES I&apos;VE
ENJOYED WORKING ON THIS PROJECT
AND I THINK ONE OF THE LESSONS
TO BE LEARNED IS FREQUENTLY OUR
PROBLEM NEED TO BE SOLVED AT
THE REGIONAL OR STATE LEVEL AND
ARBOR CANNOT DO IT THEMSELVES
AND IN THIS CASE WE HAVE SPENT
HUNDREDS OF THOUSANDS
OF DOLLARS DEALING WITH
GELMAN&apos;S ONE FOUR DIOXANE PLUME
AND ALL OF THE POLLUTION AND IF
A POLLUTE LAW WAS STILL IN
PLACE THIS WOULD NOT BE
NECESSARY AND SO I ENCOURAGE
EVERYONE TO SUPPORT THIS AND IF
ANYONE WOULD LIKE TO CO-SPONSOR
IT THAT WOULD BE GREAT.
I APOLOGIZE.
I HAD COVID AND SO I SORT
OF DROPPED THE BALL AND GETTING
SPONSORS BUT I THINK THAT THE
RESOLUTION SPEAKS FOR ITSELF.
DEXTER HAS ALREADY PASSED A
SIMILAR RESOLUTION.
THE WASHTENAW COUNTY COMMISSION
IS SCHEDULED TO PASS ONE
TOMORROW NIGHT.
YOU KNOW WE ARE UP AGAINST BIG
MONEY THE MANUFACTURING
ASSOCIATION WE HAVE GOT TO
ORGANIZE.
WE HAVE GOT TO BE SMART AND WE
HAVE GOT TO DEMAND AND
HOPEFULLY WE WILL HAVE A STATE
SENATE AND A STATE HOUSE THAT
CAN GET THIS THESE BILLS PASSED
NEXT SESSION.
COUNCIL MEMBER DENHA.
THANKS, MR MAYOR.
AND I WOULD LIKE TO ASK TO BE A
CO-SPONSOR AND THANK
COUNCILWOMAN GRISWOLD FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD.
POLLUTER PAY IS SORT OF THE
DRAMA I&apos;VE BEEN BANGING ON FOR
A WHILE WITH THIS GALMAN MATTER
WE HAD IT AND THEN IT GOT TAKEN
AWAY AND THIS HOUSE AND SENATE
BILL ARE IMPORTANT NOT JUST FOR
OUR COMMUNITY BUT FOR ALL THE
COMMUNITIES WHO ARE SUFFERING
UNDER INDUSTRIAL WASTE AND THE
BURDENS THAT COME WITH
MAINTAINING A WATER SYSTEM.
WE SPENT EIGHT NINE HUNDRED
THOUSAND DOLLARS A YEAR JUST
FILTER OUT PITHOS FROM DRYBAR
IN THE WICKSTROM POLLUTERS.
I TRY AND GET SOME FACE EVERY
TIME I GET FACE TIME WITH LIKE
I BEG TO SHUT DOWN THESE
POLLUTERS AND SHE SEEMS UNABLE
OR UNWILLING TO DO THAT SO
POLLUTER PAY IS A WAY AROUND
THAT FOR US HOPEFULLY.
AND AS YOU ACCURATELY POINTED
OUT, THESE ARE PROBLEMS THAT
ARE GREATER THAN JUST OUR
COMMUNITY AND WE KIND OF HAVE
TO TEAM UP.
IT IS A STATE MATTER AND YOU
KNOW, WE FINALLY GOT SOME
MOVEMENT ON GALMAN BY REACHING
OUT TO THE
AND GETTING THE
STATE INVOLVED AND THEN
ULTIMATELY THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT OF COURSE AND AND
YOU KNOW, WE SHOULDN&apos;T HAVE TO
GO THAT ROUTE TO COMPEL
POLLUTERS TO PAY FOR POLLUTION,
ESPECIALLY WHEN YOU LOOK AT THE
WATER WOES THAT THE WORLD IS
HAVING AND WE ARE SO BLESSED TO
SIT HERE ON THE HERE ON RIVER
IN A IN THE GREAT LAKES STATE
AND REALLY THE WORLD&apos;S GREATEST
NATURAL RESOURCE AND AND WE GOT
TO DO EVERYTHING WE CAN TO
PROTECT IT AND THIS IS A GOOD
STEP AND I I HOPE THAT OUR OUR
FOLKS IN LANSING CAN CAN GET
THIS PASSED.
IT&apos;S IT&apos;S IT&apos;S LONG OVERDUE.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER
BRIGS, I&apos;D LIKE TO THANK
COUNCIL MEMBER CHRIS PAUL FOR
BRINGING US FORWARD.
THIS IS DEFINITELY INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT THAT WE&apos;RE SUPPORTING
THIS AT THE LOCAL LEVEL AND
URGING THE STATE TO PASS THIS
THESE BILLS I CERTAINLY WOULD
ASK TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR.
TRIBORO WAS THE THE MOST RECENT
EXAMPLE OF OF HOW ALARMING THIS
IS THAT WE DON&apos;T HAVE THIS
LEGISLATION BUT THERE ARE THERE
ARE SO MANY OTHER SO MANY OTHER
CASES COUNCIL MEMBER DISH
I&apos;D
LIKE TO ADD TO THE CHORUS
OF THANKS FOR COUNCIL MEMBERS
AS WELL AND I&apos;D LIKE TO SECOND
WHAT COUNCIL MEMBER HANGER SAID
ABOUT HOW LUCKY WE ARE TO BE WE
ARE SURROUNDED BY GREAT LAKES
IN THIS STATE AND WE NEED TO
PROTECT THEM AND WE NEED TO
PROTECT THE RIVER.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU AND OH PLEASE
ADD ME AS A CO-SPONSOR COUNCIL
MEMBER IHR I&apos;D ALSO LIKE TO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR AND I
JUST WANTED TO NOTE THAT, YOU
KNOW, IF THESE BILLS WERE TO
PASS IT WOULD FITTING TO HAVE
ANN ARBOR LEGISLATORS ONCE
AGAIN CHAMPION POLLUTER PAY
LEGISLATION WAS OF COURSE OUR
FORMER STATE SENATOR.
A LOT OF POLIC WHO INITIALLY
WAS THE ARCHITECT OF POLLUTER
PAY LAW THAT WAS THE STRONGEST
IN THE NATION I BELIEVE FOUR OR
FIVE SHORT YEARS FROM 1990 TO
1995 UNTIL GOVERNOR ENGLER
DISMANTLED AND WELL IT&apos;S
UNFORTUNATE THAT YOU WE CAN
SCREAM AND SHOUT FROM THIS
TABLE AS MUCH AS WE WANT ASKING
FOR IT TO BE PASSED.
IT WON&apos;T BE DONE UNTIL
DEMOCRATS TAKE OVER BOTH HOUSES
OF OUR LEGISLATURE.
BUT THAT SHOULD NOT DETER US
FROM ADDING OUR VOICES TO THE
MIX ANYWAY.
SO THANK YOU CUSTOMER DENHA
THANKS.
I WILL KEEP IT BRIEF BECAUSE I
THINK MOST OF WHAT I WAS HOPING
TO SAY HAS ALREADY BEEN SAID
BUT I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO BE
ADDED AS A CO-SPONSOR AND
STRONGLY ENCOURAGE THIS TO PASS
AT THE STATE LEVEL.
THANK YOU COUNCIL FIRMLY.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COUNCIL MEMBER AS WELL FOR
BRINGING THIS FORWARD AND
OBVIOUSLY THE STATE REPS THAT
ARE FIGHTING HARD EVERY DAY TO
MAKE THIS RELEVANT AND HAVE US
HAVE THIS DISCUSSION HERE.
THIS IS YOU KNOW, SOME WOULD A
NO BRAINER BUT UNFORTUNATELY A
POWERFUL INDUSTRIAL LOBBYIST
THAT WE HAVE IN MICHIGAN I
NEVER DARED TO WRITE THESE LAWS
AND WRITE THESE RULES THAT
BENEFIT THE POLLUTERS FROM
DECADES AND THE OLD SYSTEM
OF USING BROWNFIELD TAX CREDITS
TO CLEAN UP THESE SITES WHICH
WE USE RATHER FREQUENTLY IN A
GREAT TOOL OF COURSE, BUT IT
REALLY JUST TRANSFERS THE
RESPONSIBILITY AND THE COST
FROM THE POLLUTERS TO THE
TAXPAYER IN FROM OTHER
INSTITUTIONS THAT BENEFIT FROM
TAX MONEY THAT WE SOMETIMES
DON&apos;T GET PAID AND GO TOWARDS
THE CLEANUP.
SO THERE&apos;S A MANY FACETED
ISSUES WITH THIS.
I THINK WE&apos;RE TAKING AWAY MONEY
FROM FROM COMMUNITIES BECAUSE
WE&apos;RE TAKING ADVANTAGE OF THE
FACT THE BROWNFIELD TAX CREDITS
AND WE HAVE ISSUES LIKE WE SAW
WITH GALMAN WHERE IT&apos;S DAVID
VERSUS GOLIATH YOU GOT THESE
POLLUTION POLLUTERS HAVE DEEP
POCKETS.
THE POLLUTION THAT TRANSCENDS
JURISDICTIONS AND TOWNSHIPS AND
CITIES AND SO ON AND SO FORTH
MAKES IT COMPLICATED FOR ANY
INDIVIDUAL ONE MUNICIPALITY TO
TAKE ON THE POLLUTER AS WE SAW
AND FELT AND WE NEED ACTION AT
THE STATE LEVEL THAT IS
STRONGER.
IN FACT IT&apos;S NOT STRONG ENOUGH.
THAT&apos;S WHY WE HAD TO GO TO THE
EPA.
I JUST HOPE THAT THAT ONCE THE
DEMOCRATS DO ON BOTH AND I&apos;LL
CHANGE AND I&apos;LL LEVELS OF OUR
GOVERNMENT THEY ACTUALLY ACT ON
THIS AND THEY DON&apos;T SUCCUMB TO
THE TO THE PRESSURE OF THE
LOBBYISTS WITH BIG MONEY THAT
THEY&apos;LL SOMEHOW WATER US DOWN
AND THE DEMS WILL HAVE STRONG
BACKBONE TO MAKE SURE THAT THIS
DOESN&apos;T GET WATERED DOWN AND
THE POLLUTERS DO END UP PAYING
FOR THE DAMAGE THEY CAUSE.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU CATS OVER HERE.
YEAH, THANKS FOR THE SECOND
OPPORTUNITY TO COMMENT KIND
OF TANGENTIALLY ON THAT.
SO I JUST WANT TO SAY SOMETHING
.
IT&apos;S BEEN KIND OF YOU KNOW IN
MY MIND ALL WEEK ACTUALLY AND
IT JUST CAME UP TWICE HERE IN
THIS CONVERSATION THAT I THINK
THERE&apos;S KIND OF A FUNDAMENTAL
FLAW THE WAY WE APPROACH
DEMOCRACY HERE IN THIS COUNTRY
AND EVEN HERE IN THE CITY THAT
WHEN IT COMES TO SOMETHING AS
BASIC AS CLEAN WATER PROVIDING
CLEAN WATER, I I THINK THAT THE
THE RED FOLKS WHO LIVE UP BY
WORDSMITH AIR FORCE BASE WHERE
THEY&apos;RE PITHOS OR WHATEVER IN
THE SWAMPS UP THERE ARE JUST AS
CONCERNED ABOUT CLEAN WATER AS
THE BLUE PEOPLE HERE IN ANN
ARBOR, WHATEVER YOU WANT TO SAY
IT.
SO WHEN I HEAR MY COLLEAGUES
SAY THAT WE CAN&apos;T WAIT TILL THE
DEMOCRATS TAKE OVER A STATE
HOUSE THAT KIND DIVISIVE
LANGUAGE IS JUST IT&apos;S I&apos;M ON
THE OUTS WITH THAT KIND
OF LANGUAGE.
I&apos;M TIRED OF DIVISIVENESS IN
OUR POLITICS AT ALL LEVELS AND
SO I APPRECIATE THAT WE HAVE
SEEN THERE&apos;S BEEN A TENDENCY
PERHAPS FOR DEMOCRATS TO BE
MORE CONCERNED ABOUT
ENVIRONMENTAL MATTERS AND SO ON
AND REPUBLICANS WHATEVER.
&gt;&gt; BUT I THINK A BETTER AND
PERHAPS MORE WORKABLE APPROACH
WOULD BE TO ASK OUR STATE
REPRESENTATIVES TO REACH OUT TO
THEIR COLLEAGUES AND CONVINCE
THEM OF THE NEED FOR THE PEOPLE
IN THEIR RED COMMUNITIES OR
WHATEVER TO GET ON BOARD WITH
THIS.
&gt;&gt; AND THIS IS SOMETHING THAT
CAN HELP EVERYBODY.
SO INSTEAD
OF SAYING I CAN&apos;T
WAIT TILL YOU&apos;RE OUT OF THERE,
WE SHOULD SAY WORK WITH ME ON
THIS SO THAT WE CAN SOLVE THIS
PROBLEM THAT AFFECTS EVERYONE.
&gt;&gt; AND SO I JUST I HAD TO SAY
THAT SOMETHING ABOUT THE
DIVISIVE LANGUAGE THAT WE HEAR
A LOT OF AND WE EVEN HEARD IT
AT THE FEDERAL LEVEL THIS WEEK
THERE WAS A LOT OF DIVISIVENESS
FROM OUR PRESIDENT AND IT IT&apos;S
NOT HELPING US IT&apos;S NOT HELPING
US AS A COMMUNITY AND AS A
NATION AND THANK FOR
ENTERTAINING THAT.
&gt;&gt; MY COMMENTS COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD.
YES.
I WANT TO THANK SOME OF THE
STAFF MEMBERS WHO HAVE BEEN
WORKING ON THIS OR RELATED
ITEMS.
JOHN FORNIER, AS SOON AS WE
STARTED TALKING ABOUT THE NEED
FOR A RESOLUTION, HE
IMMEDIATELY MOBILIZED OUR
LOBBYISTS TO START WORKING ON
IT.
SO WORK HAS ALREADY BEEN DONE
BEFORE WE&apos;RE PASSING THIS
RESOLUTION.
SO THAT&apos;S GREAT.
ALSO I WANT TO THANK BRIAN
STEIGLITZ BECAUSE A RELATED
ITEM THAT&apos;S REQUIRED BECAUSE WE
DON&apos;T HAVE THE POLLUTER PAY LAW
IN PLACE IS WHAT HAPPENED IN
WIXOM AND THERE IS SOMETHING
CALLED A NATIONAL POLLUTANT
DISCHARGE ELIMINATION SYSTEM
PERMIT APPLICATION FOR RENEWAL
AND BECAUSE TRIPA DISCHARGES
THROUGH THE WICKSON SEWER
SYSTEM, A SPECIAL PERMIT IS
REQUIRED IN ANY WAY HE WROTE A
VERY FORCEFUL EFFECTIVE
RESPONSE FOR THE PUBLIC COMMENT
AND I WON&apos;T GO INTO ALL THE
DETAILS BUT ANYWAY I WANT TO
APPRECIATE THAT.
AND LASTLY, I JUST WANT TO SAY
THAT MOST OF US HAVE HEARD
ABOUT TRIPA AND THAT A STAFF
MEMBER OVERRODE THE WARNING THE
ALARM FOUR HUNDRED AND 60 TIMES
AND RIGHT NOW WE HAVE A WARNING
ALARM THAT&apos;S GOING OFF AND I
HEARD IT TODAY WHEN I WAS AT
THE CARD MEETING AND EAGLE WAS
SAYING WELL, THERE&apos;S NOTHING WE
CAN DO BECAUSE IT&apos;S NOT IN THE
COURT ORDER.
WE HAVE FOUND OUT THAT THE
DIOXIN IS BEYOND THE
PROHIBITION ZONE BECAUSE CYO
TOWNSHIP PAID TO HAVE
MONITORING WELLS AND EGAL THEY
HAVE THEIR HANDS TIED.
AND SO I I THINK WE NEED TO
EXPLORE COURT ACTION BECAUSE
THINGS HAVE CHANGED IN THE
COURT ORDER WAS BASED ON A
CERTAIN SET OF INFORMATION.
AND NOW THERE&apos;S THIS WARNING
BECAUSE WE HAVE THE DIOXANE
OUTSIDE THE PROHIBITION ZONE
AND I THINK WE NEED TO EXPLORE
GOING BACK TO COURT AND AND
PUSHING FURTHER FOR WHATEVER IS
NEEDED BASED ON OUR EXPERTS.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU, COUNCILOR, FOR
GRANT.
THANK YOU.
I&apos;D LIKE TO BE ADDED AS A
CO-SPONSOR AND I THINK THIS IS
A TERRIFIC WAY FOR THIS BODY TO
HONOR THE BIRTH COUNCILMAN
GRISWOLD&apos;S GRANDSON LOOK TO THE
FUTURE AND HOW IMPORTANT IT IS
TO SAFE DRINKING WATER.
SO YOU KNOW, I THINK THEY&apos;RE
GOING TO BE I&apos;M LOOKING FORWARD
TO NOVEMBER.
I THINK WE&apos;RE GOING TO SEE SOME
GREAT THINGS HAPPEN IN OUR
STATE AND I THINK IT&apos;S A GREAT
WAY TO HONOR THIS MILESTONE FOR
THE DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER
AMAWI I LIKE TO ALSO BE ADDED
AS A CO-SPONSOR PLEASE FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL ROSOL I
THINK ON THE REMAINING ONE IF I
COULD BE OUT OF THE B GRADE I
JUST ALSO WANTED TO NOTE THAT
THE INFLATION REDUCTION ACT
ALSO INCLUDES MONEY FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE.
SO IF THERE&apos;S ANY WAY IN OUR
POLICY COMMITTEE WE CAN LOOK
TOWARDS GRANT OPPORTUNITIES TO
SUPPORT THIS ONGOING WORK.
I THINK IT&apos;S SIX BILLION FOR
ENVIRONMENTAL JUST THE 60
BILLION TO ACCELERATE
ENVIRONMENTAL JUSTICE WORK SO
I&apos;M ENCOURAGED BY OUR FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT AND ITS LEADERSHIP
TO.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
POR FAVOR POSED IS APPROVED AS
ONE RESOLUTION TO APPROVE A
PROFESSIONAL SERVICES AGREEMENT
WITH FIVE LAKES ENERGY LLC TO
COMPLETE A FEASIBILITY STUDY
REGARDING CREATION
OF TRADITIONAL MUNICIPAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY AND AN
EVALUATION OF OTHER ENERGY
PATHWAYS TO ACHIEVE THE CITY&apos;S
CLEAN ENERGY GOALS ALONG WITH
INITIATION OF NEXT STEPS TO
ADVANCING LOCAL MUNICIPAL
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY IN
THE AMOUNT OF 547 FOUR HUNDRED
AND FIFTY EIGHT THOUSAND SEVEN
HUNDRED NINETY SEVEN DOLLARS
MOVE BY COUNCIL MEMBER ODINA
MEMBER BRIGS DISCUSSION PLEASE
OF DC ONE.
I UNDERSTAND YOU HAVE A STAFF
PRESENTATION MR. MAYOR, BEFORE
WE GET INTO THE SUBSTANCE
OF THE ITEM WE&apos;D LIKE TO HAVE A
PRESENTATION FROM DR. MRS
STULTS.
WE FELT THAT THIS ITEM GIVEN
ITS COMPLEXITY WAS APPROPRIATE
TO WALK THROUGH EXACTLY WHAT
WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT AND DR.
STULTZ IS PREPARED TO DO THAT.
&gt;&gt; DR. STULZ, YOU THE CON DR.
STULTS IS JOINING US ON ZOOME
SORRY ABOUT THAT.
HI.
CAN YOU HEAR ME OK?
YES, WE CAN.
OUTSTANDING.
&gt;&gt; GREAT.
LET ME JUST UP THESE SLIDES FOR
YOU
ON THE AND IT&apos;S WELL AS I
GET EVERYTHING STARTED HERE LET
BEGAN BY FIRST SAYING THANK YOU
SO MUCH FOR MAKING TIME FOR THE
CONVERSATION TODAY WHERE WE CAN
EXPLORE THE US WITH DC ONE ON
ONE TERRIBLY.
LET ME TRY ONE MORE SOTIRIOU OK
,
WE VERY QUICKLY ARE YOU
SEEING THE NOTES OR ANYTHING
THAT WE HAVE THE WHOLE
INCLUDING AND INCLUDING THE
NOTES INCLUDING NOTES THAT IT&apos;S
NOT USUALLY WORK AND ONE YOU I
IT
YOU IT&apos;S JUST ME I&apos;M GOING
TO SHARE THE SCREEN WITH THE
NOTES.
I&apos;M JUST GOING TO MINIMIZE THE
NOTES FOR MEMBERS FOR THESE FOR
THAT THIS IS IN PACKAGE TOO SO
YOU CAN SEE THE DETAILS BEFORE
YOU SO JUST CONFIRMING ANYTHING
THAT&apos;S THE POINT AT THE BAR.
YES.
DOES THAT LOOK GOOD IF YOU VIEW
AND THEY SLIDE SHOW THAT SHOULD
WORK.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, ABSOLUTELY.
THANKS FOR CHECKING.
SORRY A SLIDESHOW ON THE MENU.
THERE YOU GO.
RIGHT PROJECT.
LET&apos;S SEE THIS IS THE THING
IT&apos;S SHOWING NOW YOU
WELL FIRST
AND FOREMOST LET ME SAY THANK
YOU FOR MAKING SOME TIME AND
SPACE FOR THE CONVERSATION
TODAY ABOUT ONE WHICH IS 100
PERCENT RENEWABLE ENERGY
OPTIONS ANALYSIS AND OUR BRIEF
TIME TOGETHER I WANT TO PROVIDE
A LITTLE BIT MORE DETAIL ABOUT
WHAT IS INCLUDED IN THIS IN
THIS RESOLUTION IN THE
CONTRACTS AND WHAT IS NOT
INCLUDED IN ANYTHING INCLUDING
WHAT WOULD BE NEXT STEPS SHOULD
ONE OF THE PATHWAYS PRESENTED
MOVE FORWARD.
AND THIS IS RELEVANT BECAUSE
THE CONTRACT IS QUITE COMPLEX
AND THE OPTIONS OF COURSE ARE
ALSO QUITE COMPLEX.
SO AS A BIT OF BACKGROUND YOU
AS BODY ASKED US EARLIER THIS
YEAR TO PUT TOGETHER A REQUEST
FOR PROPOSALS FOCUSING ON THE
FIRST THREE POINTS WHICH ARE
OUTLINED HERE ON THIS SLIDE,
THE FIRST BEING AN ENERGY
OPTIONS ANALYSIS IF YOU WILL.
BY THE WAY, I THINK ABOUT THIS
IS WHAT ARE ALL OF THE PATHWAYS
AVAILABLE TO US A CITY TO
ACHIEVE OUR GOAL EMPOWERING THE
COMMUNITY WITH A HUNDRED
RENEWABLE ENERGY AND THAT&apos;S
EXPLORING ALL OF THOSE OPTIONS
THE ONES WE&apos;VE ALREADY ANALYZED
AND MAYBE OTHERS THAT WE DIDN&apos;T
BECAUSE WE DIDN&apos;T KNOW THEY
WERE AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE
NEWLY AVAILABLE BECAUSE THEY&apos;RE
VIABLE IN A WAY THEY WEREN&apos;T
PREVIOUSLY.
YOU ALSO ASKED US TO DO A DEEP
DOVE INTO TWO OF THOSE OPTIONS
AND THAT WAS A TRADITIONAL
ELECTRIC UTILITY OR BUYOUT
OF THE INVESTOR OWNED UTILITIES
INFRASTRUCTURE AND THEIR
FRANCHISE OR THEIR RIGHT TO
SERVE WITHIN THE COMMUNITY.
THIS IS KNOWN AS MUNICIPAL
ZEESHAN, THE PHASE ONE STUDY
AND I&apos;LL TALK MORE ABOUT WHAT
THAT IS HIMURO MATERIALLY AND
THE SECOND OPTION YOU ASKED US
TO ANALYZE WAS THE RATE
ANALYSIS OF THE PROPOSED
SUSTAINABLE ENERGY UTILITY AS
WELL AS A SERIES OF OTHER
SUBTASK THINGS LIKE THE
GOVERNANCE IN THE STAFFING
STRUCTURE FOR THAT UTILITY.
SO WHAT WE DID A STEP IS WE PUT
TOGETHER AN RFP WHICH WE
RELEASED IN APRIL OF THIS YEAR
WITH THESE THREE MAIN TASKS AND
THEN TWO ADMINISTRATIVE TASKS.
OF COURSE WE NEED SOMEONE TO
PRODUCE THE FINAL REPORT AND TO
PREPARE PRESENTATIONS ON THE
FACTS FROM THIS ANALYSIS AND
THEN WE NEED TO HAVE REGULAR
CHECK INS WITH CITY STAFF TO
MAKE SURE THAT WE&apos;RE ON THE
SAME PAGE.
WE&apos;RE MOVING THE PROJECT
FORWARD TRANSPARENTLY AND
OPENLY AND SO THAT&apos;S WHAT WE
DID DO.
I WANT TO PAUSE FOR A SECOND
AND NOTE THAT THE POINT OF THIS
RFP WAS TO GET THE FACTS, THE
INFORMATION THAT WE NEED ABOUT
THE OPTIONS AVAILABLE TO US THE
LEGAL, THE TECHNICAL, THE
REGULATORY AND THE COST OPTIONS
OR IMPACTS OF DIFFERENT
PATHWAYS AFFORDED TO US.
SO THIS IS A FACT FINDING
INFORMATION GATHERING EXERCISE
WHICH WILL THEN SET THE TABLE,
IF YOU WILL, ALMOST LIKE A
BUFFET OF THE OPTIONS THAT WE
HAVE BEFORE SO A COMMUNITY CAN
HAVE AN INFORMED DISCUSSION
WITH ACTUAL FACTUAL INFORMATION
AND FROM IN FRONT OF THEM TO
MAKE A DECISION ON WHAT&apos;S THE
BEST PATH FORWARD FOR US AS A
COMMUNITY.
SO THIS IS A REALLY EXCITING
KIND OF STAGE SETTING
RFP AT
LEAST FOR US HERE IN THE CITY.
SO IN TERMS OF PROCESS, WHAT
ENDED UP HAPPENING IS WE DID
OUR ANALYSIS.
WE PUT THE FIRE OUT.
WE HAD FIRMS THAT BID THE THREE
TOP FIRMS WE LOOK OUR
TRADITIONAL SCORING PROCESS,
THE THREE TOP FIRMS WE OPEN
THEIR PRICING PROPOSAL AND
OF THOSE TWO FIRMS RELEASED
ABOUT FIVE LIKES ENERGY AND NEW
GEN STRATEGY AND SOLUTIONS.
AND AFTER REVIEWING THE
PROPOSALS AND EVALUATING THE
STRENGTHS AND THE THE
WEAKNESSES OF THE VARIOUS BIDS
WE A STAFF RECOMMENDED A MERGER
OF THESE TWO CONSULTANTS WITH
FIVE LEGS ENERGY BEING RELEASED
AS LONG AS YOU CAN SEE THE
BREAKDOWN OF WHERE WORK AND WHO
WILL BE CONDUCTING THE WORK.
SO FIVE SIX ENERGY WILL BE THE
PRIMARY AT LEAST THAT&apos;S THE
RECOMMENDATION WE&apos;RE BRINGING
FORWARD YOU TODAY.
THEY&apos;LL BE RESPONSIBLE FOR ALL
THE COORDINATION, THE ENERGY
OPTIONS ANALYSIS WILL BE
CONDUCTED BY FIVE ENERGY THERE
MICHIGAN BASED COMPANY.
THEY RECOMMEND PARTICIPATE IN
REGULATORY CASES.
THERE ARE INTERVENOR AS AS IS
THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR FOR
EXAMPLE IN ITS CURRENT RATE
CASE REALLY WELL RESPECTED AND
REALLY KNOWLEDGEABLE ABOUT THE
ENERGY LANDSCAPE HERE IN
MICHIGAN AND THEY&apos;RE VERY, VERY
GOOD EVERY ANALYSIS.
SO WE ALSO SELECTED TO DO THE
RIGHT ANALYSIS ONE OF THEIR
THEIR LEADS HELPED US ACTUALLY
DO SOME OF THE ANALYSIS FOR THE
SO INTIMATELY FAMILIAR WITH
KIND OF A CONCEPT ITSELF WHICH
MAKES IT MUCH MORE VIABLE IN
TERMS OF DOING THE RIGHT
ANALYSIS.
AND THEN OF COURSE HILEX WILL
PLAY A LEADING ROLE IN THE
FINAL DOCUMENT PRESENTATION AND
PREPARATIONS AND THEN NEW GEN
STRATEGIES AND SOLUTIONS IS
REALLY, REALLY WELL KNOWN AND
RESPECTED IN THE MUNICIPAL WORK
.
AND SO THEY WILL LEAD THE PHASE
ONE FEASIBILITY STUDY OF BIO
OF OUR INCUMBENT UTILITIES
INFRASTRUCTURE AND OF COURSE
PARTICIPATE IN THE FINAL
MATERIAL PREPARATION AS WELL AS
THE REGULAR GUIDANCE FOR CITY
STAFF.
SO THAT&apos;S WHAT&apos;S GOOD FOR YOU
TODAY IN THE CONTRACT I WANT TO
SHARE A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
PRODUCTS THAT WE EXPECT TO SEE
AND I&apos;M STARTING TO THINK FOR
ANIMATED TO WHAT THIS WASN&apos;T
CRAZY OVERWHELMING BUT IN THE
THREE MAIN BUCKETS AGAIN AND
TAKING TESTS FOUR AND FIVE
WHICH WERE THE ADMINISTRATIVE
TASKS KIND OF OUT THE THREE
MAIN TASKS ARE ON THE SCREEN.
YOU CAN SEE THE STEP
DELIVERABLES WILL GET FROM THAT
THE ENERGY OPTIONS ANALYSIS.
ONE OF THE THINGS WE&apos;RE REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT IS WE&apos;LL BE
GETTING AN ANN ARBOR SPECIFIC
ENERGY MODEL AND THIS MODEL IS
REALLY POWERFUL BECAUSE IT
TAKES INTO CONSIDERATION ALL
OF THE ENERGY DEMAND ALL THE
ENERGY SUPPLY CHANGING PROFILES
WITHIN OUR COMMUNITY AND IT&apos;S A
LIVING MODEL THAT WE ARE GOING
TO GET WHICH WILL HELP US
UNDERSTAND THE BEST VIABLE
PATHWAY TODAY BASED ON OUR
NEEDS BUT ALSO WE CAN CHANGE
THE VARIABLES OVER TIME AS OUR
SITUATION CHANGES.
SO FOR EXAMPLE, WE ARE STARTING
TO SEE PRETTY HIGH ELECTRIC
VEHICLE ADOPTION RATES IN ANN
ARBOR.
WELL, WE CAN MODEL WHAT THAT
MIGHT LOOK LIKE IN THE FUTURE
AND SEE IF IN ANY WAY, SHAPE OR
FORM IMPACT HOW WE PLAN FOR 100
PERCENT RENEWABLE ENERGY
PATHWAY.
WE&apos;RE ALSO GOING TO RECEIVE A
TECHNICAL LEGAL, REGULATORY AND
LIFECYCLE ASSESSMENT ANALYSIS
FOR EVERY OPTION THAT&apos;S BEING
ANALYZED.
THAT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT BECAUSE
WE WANT TO BE ABLE TO LOOK AT
EVERY PATHWAY AND UNDERSTAND
KIND OF THE PROS, THE CONS, THE
OPPORTUNITY COSTS AND THE
OPPORTUNITY ASSOCIATED WITH THE
OPTIONS THAT WE HAVE BEFORE US.
EVERYTHING WILL ALSO BE
ANALYZED THROUGH THE ENERGY
CRITERIA AND PRINCIPLES THAT
COUNCIL ADOPTED BECAUSE THAT
WAS THE KIND OF POLICY
DIRECTIVE THAT YOU TO US AND WE
WANT TO UNDERSTAND HOW THE
DIFFERENT OPTIONS ALIGN WITH
THOSE CRITERIA AND PRINCIPLES.
NOW THE OPTIONS ANALYSIS IS THE
OVERARCHING FRAMEWORK AS I
MENTIONED AND THEN THE TWO
OPTIONS THAT WE&apos;RE DRIVING MORE
DEEPLY INTO OUR PHASE ONE STUDY
FOR TRADITIONAL MUSICALIZED
PROCESS AND HERE THERE ARE A
SERIES OF PRETTY STANDARD
TECHNICAL ASSESSMENTS AND
FINANCIAL ASSESSMENTS AS WELL
AS A FINANCIAL MODEL THAT WE
NEED TO BE ABLE TO UNDERSTAND.
I&apos;LL BE GETTING KIND OF ARAMA
IF YOU WILL, FOR WHAT THE
POSSIBLE COSTS ARE.
THE VALUE OF THE ASSETS ARE
WHAT ADDITIONAL WORK WE MIGHT
HAVE TO DO TO INCREASE
RELIABILITY.
SO A REALLY IMPORTANT
FOUNDATIONAL INFORMATION FOR US
TO BE ABLE TO HAVE A REALLY
INFORMED DISCUSSION ABOUT
WHETHER THIS IS A GOOD PATHWAY
FOR THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR.
SO THE WAY WE THINK ABOUT THIS
IS THIS IS SORT OF THE
BEGINNING RESULTS, IF YOU WILL,
WITH AN ERROR BAR OF TRUTH
SOMEWHERE IN HERE.
BUT THIS IS WHAT IT LOOKS LIKE
AND SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO GET THAT
INFORMATION TO HELP US
UNDERSTAND IF THIS IS A PATHWAY
THAT&apos;S WORTH CONTINUING OR
WHETHER YOU&apos;RE ALSO ASKING FOR
A SWAP ANALYSIS SO WE CAN
UNDERSTAND AND UNDERSTAND THE
STRENGTHS OF THIS APPROACH, THE
WEAKNESSES, THE OPPORTUNITIES
AND THE POTENTIAL THREATS THAT
WE NEED TO BE AWARE OF SHOULD
BE PUT ON US AT THE SEIU WE ARE
GETTING VERY SIMILAR THINGS SO
WE&apos;RE GETTING OPERATIONAL AND
GOVERNANCE MODEL.
WE&apos;RE GETTING THE REVENUE
REQUIREMENTS, THE FINANCIAL
ASSESSMENT AND THE COST
OF SERVICE RATE DECLINE.
SO THESE THINGS ARE ALL REALLY
COMPARABLE AND WHAT I HOPE IS A
MEAN TAKE AWAY FROM ALL OF THIS
IS THAT THE PRIMARY PRODUCT I
AM MOST EXCITED ABOUT IS HAVING
A COMPARATIVE ANALYSIS OF THE
DIFFERENT OPTIONS AVAILABLE TO
US TO ACHIEVE OUR TWO ZERO GOAL
WHICH POWERING OUR COMMUNITY
WITH ONE HUNDRED PERCENT
RENEWABLE ENERGY.
AND THIS IS GOING TO ALLOW US
TO HAVE AN APPLES TO APPLES
COMPARISON OF THOSE DIFFERENT
PATHWAYS.
SO ONCE AGAIN AS A COMMUNITY WE
CAN HAVE AN INFORMED DISCUSSION
AND GET TO AN INFORMED SHARED
DECISION ABOUT WHICH PATH IS
BEST FOR US.
&gt;&gt; SO PUT ANOTHER WAY I KNOW I
JUST THREW A LOT AT YOU.
I WANT TO JUST SUMMARIZE SOME
OF THE MAIN DELIVERABLES THAT
ENERGY MODEL IT&apos;S KNOWN AS A
STEP EIGHTY SEVEN 60 MODEL.
THAT&apos;S THE LIVING MODEL WE&apos;RE
GOING TO GET AND BE ABLE TO
TAILOR OUR CONTACT SHIFTS OVER
TIME.
SO VERY POWERFUL FOR THE
COMMUNITY FOR OWI AS WE&apos;RE
ELECTRIFYING IF OUR
ELECTRIFICATION RATES ARE
FASTER THAN PROJECTED WE CAN
USE THAT INTEGRATED INTO THE
MODEL AND BE ABLE TO SWITCH AND
ADJUST OUR ENERGY DEMANDS, OUR
PROCUREMENT PROCESSES OR
WHATEVER MAY BE NECESSARY TO
MAKE SURE WE CONTINUE OUR
FIDELITY TO RENEWABLE ENERGY.
WE&apos;RE OF COURSE GOING TO GET A
FINAL TECHNICAL REPORT THAT
DOCUMENTS ALL OF THE FINDINGS.
BUT WE&apos;VE ALSO ASKED FOR A
SUMMARY FOR POLICYMAKERS IF A
SHORTER, MORE SUCCINCT TAKE
AWAY VERSION OF THE RESULTS
THAT THEN SAT IN FRONT OF THE
FULL TECHNICAL REPORT.
&gt;&gt; WE&apos;VE ASKED FOR THREE PUBLIC
MEETINGS, ONE MEETING BROADLY
TO SHARE THE RESULTS, ONE WITH
THE ENERGY COMMISSION AND ONE
THE CITY COUNCIL.
ONCE AGAIN TO CLARIFY THIS IS A
FACT FINDING PROCESS SO PUBLIC
ENGAGEMENT FOR US IS REALLY
IMPORTANT ONCE WE GET THE FACTS
AND WE CAN START TALKING REALLY
OPENLY WITH THE PUBLIC ABOUT
WHICH PATHWAYS MAKE THE MOST
SENSE, WHAT PEOPLE ARE REALLY
EXCITED ABOUT, WHAT THEY SEE AS
POTENTIAL DRAWBACKS AND THEN WE
GET ALL THE DATA PROJECT FILES
AND MATERIALS THAT WE CAN KEEP
THIS ANALYSIS LAB AND UP TO
DATE NOW THIS IS GOING ON WE&apos;RE
GOING TO HAVE AN EVENT.
IT IS GOING TO BE A LITTLE
OVERWHELMING.
WE&apos;VE GOT THE ANIMATION.
IT&apos;S GOING SINCERELY APOLOGIZE.
&gt;&gt; I CAN I CAN TRY IT WITH
NOTES IF THAT&apos;S BETTER FOR FOLK
AND I MAY DO THAT.
SO WHAT I WANT TO DO JUST TO
KIND OF BEFORE IT OFFICIALLY
AND IF I WANT TO DO A REFRESHER
BOTH ON THE SEIU AND THE
TRADITIONAL SCHOOLS ACTION
BUYOUT PROCESS BECAUSE THESE
ARE REALLY, REALLY BIG AND
IMPORTANT CONCEPTS AND WHILE
YOU AS COUNCIL MAY BE WELL
VERSED AND INFORMED IN THIS, I
WANT TO MAKE SURE THAT THE
PUBLIC KNOWS WHAT WE&apos;RE TALKING
ABOUT SHOULD THEY BE DOING HERE
TONIGHT A TRADITIONAL MEDIA
SALIVATION PROCESS IS ABOUT
BUYING THE INCUMBENT UTILITIES
ASSETS AND THEIR FRANCHISE
WHICH IS ALSO KNOWN AS THEIR
RIGHT TO SERVE THEIR RIGHT TO
PROVIDE ELECTRICITY IN THE
COMMUNITY AND SO THAT INVOLVES
BASICALLY OWNING THE
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT YOU SEE OUT
YOUR WINDOW, THE DISTRIBUTION
OF HOLD THE TRANSFORMERS, THE
SUBSTATIONS.
IT&apos;S ABOUT OWNING THAT
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK TO GET TO
THAT POINT WE HAVE TO ACHIEVE
AGREEMENT ON THE COST OR THE
VALUE OF THAT INFRASTRUCTURE IN
THE ABSENCE OF ACHIEVING
CONSENSUS WITH THE INVESTOR
OWNED UTILITY WE GO TO
LITIGATION AND INCREASE THE
VALUE OF THAT ASSET IS
DETERMINED.
RIGHT.
AND THAT&apos;S AND THAT&apos;S IMPORTANT
AND THAT IS LIKELY TO BE THE
CASE IN THAT SITUATION.
WE ALSO NEED TO ACKNOWLEDGE
THAT BUYING THAT INFRASTRUCTURE
DOES NOT IMPROVE RELIABILITY IF
WE WANT TO IMPROVE RELIABILITY
WE HAVE TO IMPROVE THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE.
SO PART OF WHAT WE&apos;RE ASKING
FOR IN THIS ANALYSIS IS BOTH
THE COST TO BUY BUT THEN THE
COST TO IMPROVE RELIABLE TO THE
STANDARDS WE ARE ASKING FOR AND
DEMANDING AS A COMMUNITY IF WE
BECOME THE SOLE PROVIDER BY
BUYING OUR INVESTOR OWNED
UTILITY, WE HAVE TO PROVIDE
24/7 POWER FOR THREE YEARS IN
ADVANCE.
THAT IS NOT OPTIONAL.
WE HAVE TO MAKE SURE BECAUSE WE
ARE THE ONLY PROVIDER OF POWER
PEOPLE CAN&apos;T GO BACK TO DTI.
WE OWN THE FRANCHISE TO SERVE
THEREFORE WE MUST SERVE AND AT
THIS POINT EVERYTHING I&apos;VE
TALKED ABOUT HAS NOT CHANGED
THE GENERATION WE OWN THE
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK.
WE HAVE TO INTEGRATE A PROCESS
TO GENERATE NEW RENEWABLE
ENERGY OR PROCURE ENERGY ON THE
MARKET.
OTHERWISE WE WOULD NOT HAVE MET
OUR AGE TO ZERO.
WE WOULD OWN AN ENERGY UTILITY
BUT WE HAVEN&apos;T FUNDAMENTALLY
SHIFTED THE ELECTRONS AND MADE
THEM GREEN YET.
SO THAT HAS TO BE FACTORED INTO
THE ANALYSIS WHICH IS WHAT WE
ARE ASKING FOR ON THIS SIDE.
WE&apos;RE GOING TO DO THE SAME FOR
THE EU IN A MINUTE AND I DON&apos;T
APOLOGIZE FOR THIS BEING
OVERWHELMING.
THIS IS A SNAPSHOT OF THE
PROCESS SO BEAR WITH ME HERE.
THIS IS GOOD TO KNOW THAT I DID
POLAKOFF VOTING AND TIMELINE
ESTIMATES AND BUDGET ESTIMATES
AND THEY ARE THAT SIMPLE
ESTIMATES MANY OF THE THINGS ON
THE SLIDE COULD BE FASTER.
MANY OF THEM MAY TAKE MUCH
LONGER.
MANY THINGS MAY BE CHEAPER,
SOME THINGS CAN BE SEQUENCED
TOGETHER.
SOME THINGS MAY BE FAR MORE
EXPENSIVE THAN ESTIMATED.
BUT THIS IS BASED ON A LOOK AT
WHAT OUR PEER COMMUNITIES HAVE
DONE AND INVESTED IN MUNICIPALS
ACKNOWLEDGING THAT THE LAST
MUNICIPAL UTILITY FORMED IN
MICHIGAN WAS IN 1992.
SO WE DON&apos;T HAVE A LOT OF LOCAL
PRECEDENT TO GO AFTER.
WE&apos;VE HAD TO LOOK IN OTHER
PLACES AND OTHER PLACES HAVE
DIFFERENT SITUATIONS.
THEY HAVE A FRANCHISE THAT THEY
CAN NEGOTIATE AROUND.
WE DO NOT.
SO THESE AGAIN ARE BUDGET
ESTIMATES JUST TO HELP INFORM
THE DISCUSSION THE COVER BEFORE
YOU WILL DO THAT FIRST GREEN
BUCKET HERE WE&apos;LL GET THE PHASE
ONE INITIAL ASSESSMENT.
THE ESTIMATED TIMELINE IS ABOUT
NINE MONTHS.
WE&apos;LL HAVE THE RESULTS OF THAT
ASSESSMENT NOW EVERY TIME YOU
SEE A CONNECTOR I CONSIDER
THESE UNREALISTICALLY GOING
BECAUSE WE LIKE WHAT WE SAW OR
OFFERINGS TO TERMINATE
INVESTIGATION OF THAT PROCESS
IF WE LIKE WHAT WE SEE AND WE
WANT TO GO DEEPER, WE MOVE INTO
A PHASE TWO EXPLORATION STUDY
.
THIS IS A MUCH MORE DETAILED
ANALYSIS WHERE WE&apos;RE LOOKING AT
ALL THE INFRASTRUCTURE TO
UNDERSTAND ITS QUALITY WHERE WE
NEED TO MAKE UPGRADES AND SO
WE&apos;RE BASICALLY TAKING THAT
BIGGER AREA AND WE&apos;RE SHRINKING
IT.
SO WE&apos;RE GETTING KIND OF A MUCH
TIGHTER SENSE OF HOW GOOD THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE IS OR IS NOT AND
WHAT THE POSSIBLE COST FOR THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE TO BUY OUT IS
FOR SURE.
IF THAT GOES WELL AND WE
PROCEED ON WE GO TO A PUBLIC
VOTE AND HERE THE PUBLIC IS
AGREEING TO BUY THAT
INFRASTRUCTURE AND TAKE ON THE
DEBT TO PURCHASE IT.
WE THEN START NEGOTIATING AND
THIS IS AN EXAMPLE WHERE WE
COULD START EARLIER IN THAT
PROCESS WE NEGOTIATE WITH THE
UTILITY ON THE TRUE COST
OF THAT IN THE ABSENCE
OF REACHING AGREEMENT.
THIS IS WHERE LITIGATION STARTS
.
WE GO TO THE COURTS TO
DETERMINE THE COST.
OF COURSE WE HAVE TO FINANCE
THAT INFRASTRUCTURE ONCE WE
AGREE ON IT, WE&apos;VE GOT TO GO
GET THE MONEY TO BE ABLE
WHETHER THAT&apos;S MOST LIKELY
THAT&apos;S YOUR BONDING TIME AND
PROCESS.
OF COURSE WE&apos;VE GOT TO STAFF
THE UTILITY WE&apos;VE GOT ON BOARD
FOLKS.
WE&apos;VE GOT TO RETAIN THE
FRANCHISE AND WE&apos;VE GOT TO
START PROVIDING SERVICE AND
THEN THIS IS AN ONGOING BOX.
WE HAVE TO PROVIDE THE SERVICE
RIGHT.
ONCE WE CREATE THE UTILITY
WE&apos;VE GOT TO KEEP DOING THAT.
WE STILL HAVE TO OBTAIN A
HUNDRED PERCENT RENEWABLE
ENERGY WHICH COULD BE
NEGOTIATED IN THE PROCESS BUT
MAY NOT HAVE BEEN AND THEN
ONGOING WE JUST HAVE TO BUILD
THE INFRASTRUCTURE RIGHT.
AS THINGS GO DOWN, AS STORMS
ROLL THROUGH, WE HAVE TO
UPGRADE JUST WHAT I ACKNOWLEDGE
NOW THAT&apos;S OUR INFRASTRUCTURE
THAT WE NEED TO MAKE SOME
OF THESE LATERAL COSTS LIKE
PROVIDING THE SERVICE AND THE
BUILDING OF NEW INFRASTRUCTURE
CAN BE RECOVERED DURING THE
RATES THAT WE SET IN THE
UTILITY OTHER COSTS HADNOT AND
SO THERE ARE COSTS ASSOCIATED
WITH MOVING THIS FORWARD.
BUT I WANT TO BE TRANSPARENT
ARE NOT RECOVERABLE COSTS AND
SOME THAT ARE THIS IS TRUE AS
WELL I THINK AS YOU SO LET ME
HAVE IT IS A CLOSED DOOR
REFRESHER ON THE SUSTAINABLE
ENERGY UTILITY SO WHAT&apos;S
DIFFERENT HERE IS THIS IS A
SUPPLEMENTAL UTILITY TO OUR
EXISTING INVESTOR OWNED
UTILITY.
IT ALMOST EXCLUSIVELY FOCUSES
ON GENERATION.
SO I TALKED A LOT ABOUT
DISTRIBUTION BEFORE THE POLES,
THE WIRES, THE INFRASTRUCTURE
BECAUSE THIS IS FOCUSING ON THE
GENERATION SOLAR OR GEOTHERMAL
ENERGY STORAGE SYSTEMS.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO OWN THE
DISTRIBUTION NETWORK.
WE CAN SET UP THE SYSTEM TO BE
ABLE TO DO BEHIND THE METER
THINGS SO WE&apos;RE NOT REALLY
USING DISTRIBUTION NETWORK.
IT IS STILL COMMUNITY OWNED AND
IS A MUNICIPAL UTILITY BUT IT
IS SUPPLEMENTAL AND THAT MEANS
THAT IT IS NOT THE SOLE
PROVIDER.
THAT MEANS PEOPLE WILL STILL
DRAW ENERGY FROM THE INVESTOR
OWNED UTILITY.
IT ALSO MEANS WE HAVE TO GROW
OVER TIME SO IT IS NOT LIKE A
BAND-AID BEING RIPPED OFF WHERE
THE SIU PROVIDES POWER
INSTANTLY TO COMMUNITIES WE
HAVE TO SCALE UP THE GENERATION
THAT WE HAVE AND THE PROVISION
OF POWER.
THE OTHER WAY TO LOOK AT THAT
IS IT MEANS WE CAN GROW INTO
NEW SERVICES OVER TIME.
SO WE TALK ABOUT THE POTENTIAL
FOR MICRO GREENING AS ONE
OF THE THINGS WHEN WE GET A
DENSITY OF NEIGHBORS THAT ARE
USING SOLAR WE CAN ACTUALLY
START SETTING UP MINIMAL
DISTRIBUTION LINES CONNECTING
THOSE DIFFERENT HOUSEHOLDS THAT
WE WOULD THAT OWN THAT BECAUSE
WE WOULD BE SETTING UP THOSE
LINES.
WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO BUY THEM OUT
FROM THE INVESTOR OWNED UTILITY
SO WE DON&apos;T HAVE TO GET INTO
THE SAME KIND OF PROCESS
OF UNDERSTANDING THE VALUE
OF OUR ASSETS BECAUSE WE&apos;RE
NEVER BUYING THEIR ASSETS.
SO IT&apos;S A DIFFERENT PROCESS NOW
IT&apos;S ALSO A MULTI-STEP PROCESS
.
SO WHAT WE&apos;RE GOING TO GET BACK
SHOULD THE COUNCIL MOVE FORWARD
IS THE FIRST PHASE RIGHT
ANALYSIS AND THAT&apos;S FOR THE
BEHIND THE METER SOLAR AND
STORAGE THAT WE&apos;RE PROPOSING
FOR PHASE ONE OF YOU.
WE ARE ALSO GETTING THE
STAFFING AND GOVERNANCE MODEL.
BUT I DID PUT THIS IS A
SEPARATE BOX IN CASE WE DO NOT
LIKE THE RECOMMENDATIONS THAT
COME BACK AND WE WANT TO DO
SOME OTHER WORK ON STAFFING AND
GOVERNANCE.
BUT THIS COULD BE A SENSE WHERE
THESE TWO THINGS ARE DONE IN
PARALLEL AND IF THIS AGAIN
SIMILARLY AROSE OR ON RAMPS OR
OFFERINGS IF THE COMMUNITY
DECIDES ABSOLUTELY NOT THIS IS
NOT A GOOD PATH, WE EXIT AND WE
MOVE ON TO WHAT&apos;S NEXT IS A
DECISION IS MADE TO KEEP MOVING
FORWARD.
THEN WE HAVE TO HAVE COUNCIL
PASSED AN ORDINANCE CREATING
SCA.
WE THEN HAVE TO SECURE FUNDING
OR FINANCE SO WE CAN PURCHASE
THE SOLAR AND ENERGY STORAGE
SYSTEMS AND THE OTHER
INFRASTRUCTURE THAT WE NEED.
WE HAVE TO STAFF WE&apos;VE GOT TO
BUY THE SUPPLIES OR CONTRACTING
THOSE ACTUAL SOLAR SYSTEMS.
WE&apos;VE GOT TO GO TO MARKET AND
PROCURE THEM AND THERE ARE
OF COURSE YOUR SUPPLY CHAIN
ISSUES THAT WE&apos;VE GOT TO
CONTEND WITH.
WE THEN HAVE TO PROVIDE THE
SERVICE.
I MEAN THE OTHER ONGOING
EXPENSE AND ASSUMING THAT WE DO
ONE OF MY PROGRAM WE&apos;VE GOT TO
DO THE TECHNICAL ASSESSMENTS
AND PRICE ALL THE NEEDS AROUND
MICROGRID ACKNOWLEDGING THIS
MEANS PROBABLY NOT SENDING ANY
ELECTRICITY BACK THROUGH THE
GRID BUT KEEPING IT INTO
MAXIMUM GENERATION AND USAGE ON
SITE AND THAT IS AN INTERESTING
TECHNICAL QUESTION BUT IT DOES
REQUIRE ADDITIONAL HELP.
AND THEN LASTLY WE HAVE TO DO A
NEW SERVICE PROVISION AS OUR
RATEPAYERS ASK FOR MORE THINGS
AND MORE SERVICES.
SO THESE ARE SIMILAR AND ONCE
AGAIN THESE WOULD BE
RECOVERABLE COSTS DENHA RATE
SHOULD THE EU MOVE FORWARD TO
GET TO THESE FINAL STEPS.
SO I&apos;M JUST CLOSE OUT.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR ATTENTION
AND SHARE ONE MORE TIME BEFORE
YOU.
TONIGHT IS A CONTRACT TO DO THE
OPTIONS ANALYSIS WHICH INCLUDES
THE PHASE ONE ASSESSMENT FOR
THE SIU PHASE ONE ASSESSMENT
FOR A BUYOUT OF OUR INCUMBENT
UTILITIES.
THOSE ARE TWO OPTIONS WE ARE
ASKING OUR CONSULTANT REVIEW.
WE ARE ALSO ASKING THEM TO LOOK
AT THINGS LIKE VIRTUAL POWER
PURCHASE AGREEMENTS, RENEWABLE
ENERGY CREDITS, POWER PURCHASE
AGREEMENTS, DIFFERENT ONSITE
GENERATION AND OTHER MECHANISMS
THAT ARE VIABLE FOR US HERE
TODAY.
SO WE WILL GET THE RESULTS FROM
THOSE TWO TECHNICAL STUDIES BUT
WE WILL ALSO GET MANY MORE
POSSIBLE OPTIONS FOR OUR
COMMUNITY TO DISCUSS.
&gt;&gt; AS I MENTIONED EARLIER,
COSTS SHOULD BE MOVED FORWARD
WITH MUNICIPAL ZATION OR SEIYU
OR NOT RECOVERABLE WITH A LOT
OF COSTS COULD BE AND FINALLY I
AM REALLY EXCITED TONIGHT FOR
US TO BE TALKING ABOUT THIS
RESOLUTION BECAUSE I THINK THIS
IS REALLY IMPORTANT FOR US TO
BE ABLE TO HAVE THE FACTS THAT
WE NEED AS A COMMUNITY TO
INFORM OUR NEXT STEPS FOR
MEETING OUR ZERO GOAL OF 100
PERCENT RENEWABLE ENERGY POWER
IN THE COMMUNITY.
SO WITH THAT I WILL STOP AND
THINK THANK YOU FURTHER.
IT&apos;S GOOD.
OH I MEAN I&apos;LL USE MY TIME IN
THE ORDINARY COURSE.
YEAH OK WELL THANKS BUT NO
THANK YOU.
I MEAN YOU KNOW THIS IS MY TIME
THAT&apos;S FINE.
YES MY APOLOGIES.
SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO WE&apos;RE GOING
TO GET A SENSE OF WHAT THE
TOTAL COST OF OWNERSHIP OF THIS
EXISTING UTILITY IS BEFORE WE
DECIDE IF WE&apos;RE GOING TO BOND
FOR THAT AND FLIP THE SWITCH.
I UNDERSTAND WHAT YOU MEAN WHEN
YOU SAID THAT WE HAVE TO
PROVIDE POWER THREE YEARS IN
ADVANCE.
&gt;&gt; I DIDN&apos;T UNDERSTAND I I
DON&apos;T KNOW IF I WROTE THAT DOWN
PROPERLY AND I ASSUME THAT I
MEAN THE BASIS OF THIS IS OUR
COMMUNITIES TOTAL ENERGY USE
PROJECTED FORWARD.
RIGHT.
LIKE THAT&apos;S HOW WE DECIDE IF WE
CAN HANG WITH MAKING OUT ENOUGH
POWER LOCALLY.
GOOD.
SO FOR THE FIRST ONE MUNICIPAL
UTILITIES HAVE TO PROVE THAT
THEY CAN PROVIDE 24/7 POWER FOR
THREE YEARS.
SO WE HAVE TO HAVE ENOUGH
CONTRACT OR ACTUAL ONSITE
GENERATION TO MEET THAT THAT&apos;S
JUST SORT OF A REQUIREMENT
OF MUNICIPAL UTILITIES SO THAT
WE CONTINUE TO BE GRID POWER
THAT FOR THE FIRST THREE YEARS
CONTRACTED GRID POWER YOU MIGHT
SAY OR WHATEVER.
&gt;&gt; SO WE HAVE TO BE OK.
YEP, ABSOLUTELY.
AND THEN YOU&apos;RE GOING TO YOUR
SECOND QUESTION WHY?
&gt;&gt; WELL, I MEAN I ASSUME THAT
WE&apos;RE GOING TO HAVE A SENSE
OF THE TOTAL ENERGY USE YOU
PROJECTED INTO THAT WILL GROW
AS A COMMUNITY AS WE ELECTRIFY
IS IS THERE ANY CONCERN OR
CONSIDERATION THAT LIKE SO THE
PLANNING COMMISSION HAS A THING
TOMORROW VERY LARGE PROJECT IN
MY WARD AND THERE WAS SOME IT
GOT DELAYED BECAUSE THERE WAS
SOME TALK ABOUT ELECTRIFYING
THIS PROJECT.
BUT IF WE CONTINUE TO MOVE
FORWARD WITHOUT ELECTRIFIED NEW
PROJECTS AND NEW CONSTRUCTION
AND NEW UNITS ARE ARE WE GOING
TO TAKE INTO ACCOUNT POTENTIAL
GROWTH IN THE CITY THAT IS
NON-ELECTRIC OR ARE WE MAKING
THE ASSUMPTION THAT BY A
CERTAIN DATE EVERYTHING IS
GOING TO BE ELECTRIFIED BECAUSE
IF THEY&apos;RE BUILDING SOMETHING
NOW IT&apos;S NOT ELECTRIC, IT&apos;S NOT
GOING TO BE ELECTRIFIED BY 2030
WHICH I DON&apos;T THINK PERSONALLY
WE SHOULD ALLOW IT BUT SO
WONDERFUL THAT CALCULATED IS
THAT THE KIND OF I ASSUME FOR
FIVE HUNDRED THOUSAND THAT&apos;S
THE KIND OF DEPTH
OF UNDERSTANDING WE&apos;RE GOING TO
HAVE?
&gt;&gt; WELL, WE ACTUALLY HAVE STUFF
ALREADY DONE SOME OF THAT
ANALYSIS LOOKING AT OUR
FACILITIES WE ALREADY KNOW LIKE
WE HAVE A MODEL THAT LOOKS OUT
WITH EVERY NEW DEVELOPMENT.
IT IS ELECTRIC.
HERE&apos;S THE INCREASED DEMAND AND
PEOPLE TRANSITION THEIR
VEHICLES OVER FROM INTERNAL
COMBUSTION ENGINE ETC. SO WE&apos;LL
BE SHARING THE MODEL WITH THE
CONSULTANT TO VALIDATE AND
UPDATE.
BUT IT&apos;S A SCENARIO, RIGHT?
IT&apos;S ONE POSSIBLE FUTURE.
SO WE NEED THEM TO HELP US LOOK
ACROSS THOSE DIFFERENT
SCENARIOS SO WE CAN MAKE SURE
WE&apos;RE INFORMED.
&gt;&gt; SO WE&apos;RE GETTING THAT WE&apos;RE
GETTING VARIOUS SCENARIOS AS
PART OF THIS THE ANALYSIS
BEFORE US, THE ANALYSIS TOOL.
YES.
OK, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; CUSTOMER GRISWOLD.
YEAH, I&apos;M GETTING QUESTIONS
FROM SOME OF MY CONSTITUENTS
AND ONE PRETTY BASIC QUESTION
IS IF WE&apos;RE STILL STUDYING
ALTERNATIVES IS SUSTAINABILITY
MILLAGE PREMATURE?
I MEAN THAT&apos;S FOR THE VOTERS TO
DETERMINE ARE WE HAVE WHAT I
WOULD SAY I MEAN PROCESS WISE.
YEAH, WE HAVE MANY ACTIVITIES
AND PROGRAMS THAT ARE ALREADY
IN OPERATION AND RIGHT NOW WHAT
WE HAVE IN THE PROPOSED
COMMUNITY CLIMATE ACTION WHICH
I WOULD POINT PEOPLE TO THE
WEBSITE WHERE WE HAVE A TWO
YEAR BUDGET THAT TALKS ABOUT
WHAT WE&apos;D BE INVESTING IN
AROUND RENEWABLE ENERGY AND
IT&apos;S THINGS LIKE INCENTIVES TO
HELP PEOPLE INSTALL SOLAR OR DO
ENERGY EFFICIENCY ON THEIR
HOMES, THINGS LIKE ENHANCING
WHAT THE INFLATION REDUCTION
JUST OFFER IN TERMS OF DIRECT
REBATES THE FOLKS HAVE BUYING
EQUIPMENT AND THEN SELLING THAT
EQUIPMENT AT A DISCOUNT FOR
FOLKS.
SO ALL OF THAT STELLING AND
IDEALLY WOULD START WELL WITH
OUR
ENERGY FUTURE.
SO YOU KNOW, SIX TO NINE MONTHS
IS A LONG TIME FOR US TO GET A
RESULT BACK AND THEN IT&apos;S
FEASIBLE.
THE RESULT IS NOT IT&apos;S NOT
EITHER OF THE OPTIONS THAT
WE&apos;RE DOING A TECHNICAL
ANALYSIS ON.
&gt;&gt; OH, OK, THANKS.
AND THEN FROM YOUR SLIDES, THE
MUNICIPAL POLARIZATION STUDY
WAS PHASE ONE TO SEE YOU RATE
ANALYSIS WAS A COMPLETE STUDY.
SO ARE WE REALLY GOING TO BE
ABLE TO COMPARE THE TWO IF
WE&apos;VE ONLY DONE PHASE ONE
OF THE MUNICIPAL IZATION?
&gt;&gt; YEAH, SO PHASE WELL PHASE
TWO IS VERY EXPENSIVE IN
COMPARISON TO WHERE WE ARE
TODAY.
SO WE WANT TO START WITH PHASE
ONE TO UNDERSTAND THAT&apos;S STILL
SOMETHING WE WANT TO MOVE
FORWARD.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S THE RECOMMENDATION.
SO THAT WOULD BE A STRANDED
COST FOR EXAMPLE IF WE WENT AND
DID PHASE ONE AND TWO AT THE
SAME TIME WE&apos;RE TALKING
MILLIONS NOW IS LIGHT SOME
OF THE COSTS THAT WE GOT SO WE
DON&apos;T WANT WE DON&apos;T WANT TO ASK
COUNCIL TO DO THAT UNLESS WE
HAVE PRELIMINARY NUMBERS THAT
SHOW YES, THIS IS A REALLY GOOD
STRATEGY FOR OUR COMMUNITY.
LET&apos;S LET&apos;S MOVE ON THAT NEXT
STEP.
&gt;&gt; OH, OK.
BUT AFTER PHASE ONE YOU&apos;LL BE
ABLE TO COMPARE THE TWO
OPTIONS.
&gt;&gt; YOU&apos;LL HAVE ENOUGH
INFORMATION.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, BECAUSE THEN YOU PHASE
ONE IS BEHIND THE METER SOLAR
STORAGE PHASE TWO FOR THE AC IS
THE MICROGRID SO OK.
AND MY LAST ISSUE AND MAYBE YOU
CAN ADDRESS IT IS THAT MY TOP
PRIORITY WITH ALL OF THIS IS TO
REDUCE DIRTY ENERGY THAT IS
NEGATIVELY IMPACTING GROWING
BRAINS IN POOR NEIGHBORHOODS.
I MEAN WE KNOW THAT EVEN
SCHOOLS ARE BUILT IN THE MOST
POLLUTED AREAS BECAUSE THE LAND
IS CHEAPER NOT ONLY AIR
POLLUTION BUT GROUND POLLUTION.
&gt;&gt; SO I HOPE THAT WITH ANYTHING
WE DO WE DON&apos;T JUST THINK ABOUT
ANN ARBOR BUT AGAIN WE THINK
REGIONALLY BECAUSE THOSE
CHILDREN NEED OUR HELP NOW.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
AND YOU JUST SHARING THAT THAT
WAS ONE OF THE ENERGY CRITERIUM
PRINCIPLES THAT COUNCIL ADOPTED
.
AND SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO ASK EACH
OF THESE OPTIONS BEING
PRESENTED TO RUN THROUGH THOSE
CRITERIA WHICH ONE IS
TRANSFERABILITY?
ANOTHER IS EQUITY AND JUSTICE
AND SO GREAT TO THOSE.
&gt;&gt; OK, THANKS COUNCILOR HAYNER
.
&gt;&gt; THANKS MR MAYOR.
APPRECIATE THIS SECOND
OPPORTUNITY HERE.
&gt;&gt; ONE OF YOUR ONE OF THE
PROCESS CITIES WAS THIS VOTE,
THIS PUBLIC VOTE AND THE PUBLIC
VOTE IS SOMETIME IN THE FUTURE
THE PUBLIC IN ARNAB OR YOU&apos;RE
SAYING IT GOES TO THE BALLOT
SHOULD WE BOND TO DO THIS OR
SHOULD WE DO THIS OR WHAT IS
THE QUESTION THAT WOULD BE
BEFORE THE VOTERS EXACTLY.
AND AND I GUESS I MEAN I KNOW
THAT&apos;S DOWN THE ROAD BUT AND I
GUESS THE REASON I ASK THAT I
MIGHT SOUND LIKE KIND OF A
SIMPLE QUESTION BUT SO LIKE
RIGHT NOW I DON&apos;T HAVE A CHOICE
LIKE I DO HAVE A CHOICE I COULD
PONY UP FOR SOLAR AND STORAGE
OR WHATEVER AND GRID TIE AND
GET RID OF MY RELATIONSHIP WITH
DTT OR I CAN USE DTT AND THAT&apos;S
KIND OF MY TWO CHOICES AND IN
THE FUTURE YOU&apos;RE SAYING THAT
IF ALL GOES WELL WITH THIS AND
WE CAN GENERATE ENOUGH ENERGY
AND SO ON SO ON THAT MY CHOICE
WILL BE THE CITY OF ANN ARBOR
MUNICIPAL UTILITY OR DISCONNECT
MYSELF FROM THE GRID AND HAVE
SOLAR AND WHATEVER.
SO I&apos;M KIND OF TRADING ONE FOR
THE OTHER.
SO IF I WAS A RESIDENT WHO
DIDN&apos;T SAY HAVE FAITH IN THE
CITY TO PROVIDE THIS JUST AS AN
EXAMPLE AHMEDZAI OF LUCK LIKE
WHATEVER THAT VOTE IS, THAT&apos;S
IT.
AND I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY MORE TO
TIE INTO IT.
&gt;&gt; THAT&apos;S HOW IT I GO DOWN.
YEAH.
SO THAT&apos;S THE MUNICIPAL ZATION
EFFORT.
ONE OF THE OPTIONS BEING
STUDIED AND THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
IF IT WERE TO PASS AND YOU WERE
TO TAKE ON THE DEBT ANYWAY THE
TERMS AND WE BUY THE FRANCHISE
IF WE TAKE IT OUT WE ARE OF THE
UTILITY AND WE&apos;RE RUNNING OUR
OWN TRUCKS AND WE&apos;RE INVESTING
IN ALL THAT GEAR AND THE TRUCKS
THAT ROLL BY MY HOUSE FROM THE
SUBSTATION DOWN THERE AND
BROADWAY ARE GOING TO BE IN
ARMORED TRUCKS INSTEAD OR
WHATEVER.
&gt;&gt; YEAH, THAT&apos;S RIGHT.
SO WE&apos;RE TALKING ABOUT BILLIONS
AND BILLIONS OF DOLLARS CAN&apos;T
ANSWER THAT.
&gt;&gt; YES, BUT MAYBE I MEAN THEY
GOT MORE THAN THEY GOT MORE
THAN TWO MILLION PLUS IN COPPER
JUST IN TEN BLOCKS.
YOU KNOW SO I MEAN THIS IS IT&apos;S
A IT&apos;S A BIG ASK.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THIS IS GOING TO BE
A BIG ASK AND A HUNDRED
THOUSAND TO FIND OUT HOW BIG I
GUESS IS PEANUTS FOR THIS
COUNCIL.
BUT WHAT IS IT A TENTH OF A
PERCENT OF OUR TOTAL BUDGET OR
SOMETHING?
ONE HUNDREDTH OF A PERCENT
COUNCIL MEMBER.
OK, MR. MAYOR, FOR THE
DISCUSSION.
&gt;&gt; MR. MAYOR.
OH YES, MR. TONY.
I THINK IT WOULD BE APPROPRIATE
TO INSERT AT THIS POINT THAT IF
WE WERE TO DETERMINE THAT WE&apos;RE
GOING TO ESTABLISH A MUNICIPAL
UTILITY, WE ARE TALKING ABOUT A
TOTALLY SEPARATE STRUCTURE THAN
THE OPERATION THAT WE&apos;RE
RUNNING DAY TO DAY RIGHT NOW
IT&apos;S SEPARATE LEGALLY.
IT&apos;S SEPARATE STAFF, SEPARATE
SKILLS.
IT&apos;S SEPARATE EXPERTIZE.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S NOT ACQUIRING IT AND
INCORPORATING IT INTO THE
ORGANIZATION AS WE KNOW IT SO
PEOPLE NEED TO DO NEED TO MAKE
THAT DISTINCTION.
&gt;&gt; IT DOESN&apos;T RESIDE IN CITY
HALL IS WHAT YOU&apos;RE SAYING.
&gt;&gt; I WOULD PRESUME IT WOULD NOT
WHEN I SEE THESE POWER SHIRTS
AND I THOUGHT THERE WAS LIKE
SORT OF THIS GROUNDSWELL
OF COUNCIL MEMBERS WANT TO DO
IT OURSELVES BUT COUNCIL I&apos;M
CONCERNED ABOUT THE
RELATIONSHIP HERE, COUNCILMAN.
&gt;&gt; NOTHING.
THANK YOU.
I&apos;M I&apos;M I&apos;M INTERESTED I DID
LET YOU DOWN AND I TOTALLY
IGNORED YOU.
&gt;&gt; SORRY.
IS THERE A BREAKDOWN IN THIS
THE PRICE TAG FOR THIS
FEASIBILITY STUDY IN TERMS
OF WHAT IS DEDICATED TO AN
ANALYSIS OF AN ACTU VERSUS
ANALYSIS OF THE PUBLIC POWER
YOU TELL OTHER MUNICIPAL POWER
UTILITY YES, AND FORGIVE ME I
DON&apos;T THINK THAT IT SHOULD BE
IN THE ATTACHMENT.
YOU SHOULD SEE THAT PROPOSAL
ITSELF.
LET ME OPEN IT IF YOU GIVE ME A
MINUTE.
&gt;&gt; I DON&apos;T EAT UP YOUR TIME.
OKAY.
PRETTY WELL I GUESS MY OTHER
QUESTION I ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO
READ THE FREQUENTLY ASKED
QUESTIONS DOCUMENT ON AN ACTU
BECAUSE I&apos;M I&apos;M SLIGHTLY
CONFUSED ABOUT WHY WHY THE THE
COMPARISON THE COMPARISON IS
THE MOST IMPORTANT PART I MEAN
IN THE EXCUSE FOR THE ACTU IT&apos;S
IT&apos;S OUTLINED THAT THERE&apos;S
FLEXIBILITY UP AND DOWN IN
TERMS OF HOW MUCH THE CITY WAS
WILLING TO INVEST IN AN ACTU SO
IN A PRICE COMPARISON LIKE A
MUNICIPAL POWER UTILITY IS
ALWAYS GOING TO COME OUT ON THE
LOSING SIDE BECAUSE THERE&apos;S A
FIXED PRICE TO IT AND AN SEIU
IS ENTIRELY FLEXIBLE.
I GUESS I&apos;M I THIS IS THE PART
THAT&apos;S CONFUSING TO ME WHY IT
IS A COMPARISON STUDY AND WHY I
MEAN IT&apos;S LIKE THE DECK IS
STACKED AND WE ALREADY KNOW THE
ANSWER I GOT I WOULD ENCOURAGE
RESIDENTS TO READ THE DOCUMENT
THE FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS
ABOUT AN ACTU BECAUSE AT ITS
BASICALLY AN ARGUMENT JUST
SAYING THAT MUNICIPAL POWERS
TOO EXPENSIVE AND NOT A GOOD
IDEA.
&gt;&gt; BUT WHAT I&apos;M TALKING ABOUT
WAS THE QUESTION LIKE LIKE I
GUESS WE&apos;RE LOOPING BACK TO THE
ANSWER TO THE QUESTION OF THE
BREAKDOWN HOW MUCH WE ARE HOW
MUCH MONEY IS BEING INVESTED IN
STUDYING THE SIU IT LOOKS LIKE
IT LOOKS LIKE I WHAT I READ IN
THE NEWS ABOUT THE YOU YOU
ALREADY KNOW QUITE A LOT OF THE
ANSWERS THAT I MEAN SO WHAT&apos;S
THE BREAKDOWN IN THE OVER HALF
OF THE MONEY GOES TO THE
MUNICIPAL INNOVATION PHASE ONE
STUDY SUGGESTS TO OF THE
BREAKDOWN IF IT&apos;S IN THE
CONTRACT WHICH IS ATTACHED TO
COUNCIL RESOLUTION ON PAGE 18
THE ENERGY OPTIONS ANALYSIS IS
ONE HUNDRED AND TWENTY NINE
THOUSAND ROUNDED UP TO THE
FEASIBILITY STUDY IS ONE
HUNDRED AND FORTY FIVE THE
RIGHT ANALYSIS IS FIFTY EIGHT.
THE DOCUMENT PRESENTATION KIND
OF MATERIALS IS EATING AND THEN
THE STACK TIME ADMINISTRATIVE
IS FORTY FOUR SO I&apos;M WRITING
DOWN THOSE NUMBERS ONE HUNDRED
AND TWENTY NINE FOR THE
COMPARATIVE AND FIFTY EIGHT FOR
THE FOR YOU THEY CEO ANALYSIS.
&gt;&gt; YEP AND THEN ONE HUNDRED AND
FORTY EIGHT AND CHANGE FOR THE
MUNICIPAL FEASIBILITY STUDY AND
JUST CLARIFYING AGAIN THE
ENERGY OPTIONS ANALYSIS IS THE
OVERARCHING UMBRELLA SO THE YOU
INITIALIZATION OTHER OTHER
OPTIONS IN THAT TASK ONE SO
THAT&apos;S THE BIGGER KIND OF HOME
FOR ALL OF THIS AND THEN WE&apos;RE
GETTING THESE OTHER TECHNICAL
STUDIES ON THOSE TWO OPTIONS.
&gt;&gt; THANKS TO OVER DENHA WITH MY
APOLOGIES.
&gt;&gt; RIGHT.
THANK.
I THINK THAT&apos;S ALL RIGHT
BECAUSE I ACTUALLY I DON&apos;T
THINK I HAVE ANY QUESTIONS FOR
DR. SALTZ BECAUSE WE&apos;VE HAD THE
OPPORTUNITY TO TALK ABOUT THIS
AT LENGTH THROUGH THE ENERGY
COMMISSION.
I AM GRATEFUL TO SEE THIS
COMING FORWARD.
I KNOW THAT A LOT OF STAFF TIME
HAS GONE INTO THIS.
I WANT TO THANK DR. SALTZ AND
OFFICE OF SUSTAINABILITY AND
INNOVATION FOR THE WORK THAT
THEY&apos;VE PUT IN NOT ONLY TO
DEVELOPING THE RFP BUT THEN
WORKING TOWARD THIS THIS
TONIGHT.
OBVIOUSLY WE ALSO HAVE SEEN A
LOT OF PASSIONATE PUBLIC INPUT
AND PUBLIC ADVOCACY AROUND THIS
AND SO I WANT TO THANK THE
FOLKS WHO ARE HERE FOR FOR
ADVOCATING BUT ALSO CHAIR
MURKOWSKI WHO IS WHO HAS DONE A
TON OF WORK IN EDUCATING THE
COMMUNITY AND SO FOLKS CONTINUE
TO HAVE CHIMPSKY FROM THE
ENERGY COMMISSION FOR FOLKS WHO
CONTINUE TO HAVE QUESTIONS AS
WELL.
I DO ENCOURAGE FOLKS TO GO BACK
AND AND LOOK THE THE
CONVERSATIONS THAT WERE HAD AT
ENERGY COMMISSION ABOUT THIS
LAST FALL.
THERE WAS SIGNIFICANT WORK THAT
WENT INTO IT INCLUDING
CONVERSATIONS WITH OTHER
COMMUNITIES THAT HAVE GONE DOWN
THIS PATH BOTH BOULDER AND
WINTER PARK, FLORIDA AND
EXTENSIVE CONVERSATION.
AND SO, YOU KNOW, I THINK IT&apos;S
IMPORTANT TO REMIND FOLKS THAT
THIS IS NOT A DECISION ON
WHETHER OR NOT WE MOVE FORWARD
TONIGHT BUT RATHER
THAT WE ARE
MOVING FORWARD WITH WITH THE
STUDY SO THAT WE ALL HAVE
COMMON FACTS UPON WHICH WE CAN
HAVE THAT CONVERSATION AND
DEBATE.
AND I THINK THAT IS ABSOLUTELY
A WORTHY CAUSE FOR US TO
SUPPORT.
I THINK IT&apos;S REALLY IMPORTANT
FOR US TO HAVE THAT COMMON SET
OF FACTS TO HAVE THIS IS A FACT
FINDING MISSION AS DR. SALT
POINTED OUT.
SO THAT WE CAN COME BACK TO
THIS TABLE AND HAVE A
CONVERSATION AND HAVE A
CONVERSATION IN THE COMMUNITY
ABOUT WHETHER OR NOT THIS IS A
PATH THAT WE WANT TO GO DOWN
AND SO I&apos;M EXCITED FOR THAT
CONVERSATION AND LOOK FORWARD
TO SUPPORTING THIS.
AS AN ASIDE, I WILL ALSO SAY
THIS IS JUST MY PERSONAL SIDE
ON THIS.
I DO NOT BELIEVE THAT THIS
MEANS THAT THAT THE CLIMATE IS
PREMATURE.
I THINK EVERYONE IN THE
COMMUNITY SHOULD GO BACK AND
LOOK AT ALL OF THE THINGS THAT
COUNCIL SAID THAT THAT MONEY
WOULD BE DEDICATED TOWARDS.
THIS IS A SEPARATE EFFORT AND
SO THERE ARE A TON
OF INCREDIBLY WORTHY SERVICES
AND AND PROGRAMS THAT WOULD BE
PROVIDED FOR WITH THAT MONEY AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO THANK YOU FOR EVERYONE
WHO HAS PUT WORK INTO THIS AND
I LOOK FORWARD TO SUPPORTING
THIS AND MOVING TO THE NEXT
PHASE COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO ASK A CLARIFYING
QUESTION OF DR. STULTS PLEASE.
SO WE&apos;RE GOING TO GATHER FACTS
WHICH I THINK IS GREAT AND THEN
WE ARE GOING TO COMPARE
NUMEROUS OPTIONS, TWO OF WHICH
WE KNOW WILL BE A TRADITIONAL
MUNICIPAL UTILITY VERSUS NICU
AND THEY MAY NOT EVEN END UP
BEING PITTED AGAINST EACH
OTHER.
&gt;&gt; WE DON&apos;T KNOW IT DEPENDS
WHAT WHAT WE LEARN FROM THESE
STUDIES BUT THEN WE WILL BE
MAKING A JUDGMENT AND WE WILL
IF I&apos;M UNDERSTANDING IT
CORRECTLY, THE JUDGMENT THAT WE
WILL BE MAKING IS NOT SIMPLY ON
WHICH OF THESE IS CHEAPER TO DO
BUT WHICH OF THESE OPTIONS GETS
US TO MORE OF OUR A TWO ZERO
GOALS.
&gt;&gt; AM I CORRECT?
YOU ARE THE FUNDAMENTAL THING
WE&apos;VE ASKED FOR IS HOW DO WE
POWER THE COMMUNITY WITH A
HUNDRED RENEWABLE ENERGY AND
THAT IS THE GOAL THAT WE HAVE
AND THAT&apos;S WHAT WE&apos;VE ASKED OUR
CONSULTANTS TO REALLY CENTER
AND THEN EVALUATE AS WELL ON
THE ENERGY CRITERIA AND
PRINCIPLES SO WE CAN LOOK AT
COST BUT WE CAN ALSO LOOK AT
EQUITY AND JUSTICE AND WE CAN
ALSO LOOK AT ADDITIONALITY.
&gt;&gt; THE OTHER THINGS COUNCIL
TOTAL IS MORE IMPORTANT.
RIGHT.
OK, THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
AND THEN I WOULD ALSO LIKE TO
ADD THAT IT IS ALSO MY PERSONAL
OPINION THAT THE CLIMATE
VILLAGE IS NOT PREMATURE AND
I&apos;M INCREDIBLY EXCITED ABOUT
ALL OF THE THINGS THAT THE
CLIMATE VILLAGE WILL DO FOR OUR
MATERIALS RESOURCE MANAGEMENT
SOLAR IS INCREDIBLY IMPORTANT.
I HAVE IT I&apos;VE HAD LONGER THAN
WE HAD SOLAR RISE BUT YOU KNOW
I BELIEVE IN ALL THAT I WILL
OWN AND BE SOMETIME IN THE NEXT
FIVE YEARS.
I&apos;M SURE.
BUT THESE ARE THE THE THE
THINGS THAT WE THINK ABOUT WHEN
WE THINK ABOUT THE EIGHT TO
ZERO PLAN.
BUT THERE ARE INCREDIBLY
IMPORTANT INROADS AND PROGRESS
THAT WE NEED TO MAKE IN
COMPOSTING AND RECYCLING AND IN
REDUCING OUR CONSUMPTION.
AND THIS CLIMATE VILLAGE IS
GOING TO HELP US DO THAT AS
WELL PLUS HELP PEOPLE SWAP OUT
THEIR GAS APPLIANCES FOR
ELECTRIC APPLIANCES WHICH IS A
HUGE COST AND INDOOR AIR
QUALITY IS A HUGE PROBLEM THAT
WE ALSO DON&apos;T THINK ABOUT.
AND SO THERE&apos;S THE INSIDE
OF OUR HOUSE AND THERE&apos;S OUR
ROOFS AND THIS CLIMATE VILLAGE
WILL HELP WITH ALL OF THAT AND
THERE IS SO MUCH WORK TO DO WE
CAN&apos;T GET THE MONEY FAST ENOUGH
COUNTS OVER BREAKS I CAN I CAN
BE BRIEF BECAUSE I CAN&apos;T
REMEMBER A DENHA AND CAST
MEMBER HAVE SAID MUCH OF WHAT I
WAS INTERESTED IN SEEING BUT AS
ONE OF THE LIAISON&apos;S THE ENERGY
COMMISSION I DID JUST ALSO WANT
TO SAY THANK YOU TO AFTER
STOLTZ AND STAFF FOR ALL OF THE
WORK THAT HAS GONE INTO THIS UP
AT THIS POINT CERTAINLY TO OUR
ENERGY COMMISSION WHICH IS LED
BY CHAIR MIRSKY AND TO ALL THE
FOLKS THAT ARE IN THE ROOM
TONIGHT PM THE POWER HAS BEEN
PUSHING VERY HARD FOR FOR THIS
STUDY FOR UNDERSTANDING WHAT
THE YOU KNOW WHAT WOULD LOOK
LIKE TO IS GETTING MORE
INFORMATION SO WE CAN HAVE AN
EDUCATED CONVERSATION IN OUR
COMMUNITY.
SO I&apos;M EXCITED THAT WE&apos;RE AT
THE STAGE WHERE WE ARE ABOUT TO
LAUNCH AND GET SOME GOOD
INFORMATION AND EXCITED TO SEE
THAT FINAL REPORT CARD NUMBER.
&gt;&gt; SO DR. STULTS, WOULD YOU CAN
YOU COVER A CAN YOU REVIEW FOR
US HOW THE FEASIBILITY STUDY
WILL GAUGE OUR HOUSING
PARTNERS, THE HOUSING
COMMISSION?
I KNOW WE HAVE SOME
PARTNERSHIPS ALREADY.
&gt;&gt; HOW WILL THEY BE INCLUDED IN
THIS WORK?
SO THIS WILL ONLY LOOK AT THEIR
ENERGY USE AND UNDERSTAND IF WE
WERE TO PROVIDE IF I UNDERSTOOD
YOUR QUESTION CORRECTLY, IT WAS
AROUND THE PHASE ONE STUDY THAT
THE TAKEOVER OF THE POWER GRID
PROVISION IN THE COMMUNITY THEN
WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THE POWER
NEEDS ARE AND SO THAT&apos;S PART
OF THE ANALYSIS BOTH TODAY&apos;S
POWER NEEDS AND FUTURE POWER
NEEDS INCLUDING THE IMPORTANCE
OF RESILIENCE.
SO WE&apos;VE SEEN A LOT OF OUR
AFFORDABLE HOUSING SITES HAVE
REALLY SUFFERED WITH
RELIABILITY CONCERNS.
THANK YOU COUNCIL MEMBER AND
LIKE THANK YOU.
WELL, AS WE TALK ABOUT
ELECTRIFICATION IN ALL SORTS, I
THINK IT&apos;S IMPORTANT THAT WE
LOOK THIS SERIOUSLY AND
HONESTLY AND PUT FORWARD THE
PROPER RESOURCES TO GET THE
ANSWERS AND THE INFORMATION
THAT ARE BEING ASKED.
I&apos;M A LITTLE BIT CONFUSED WOULD
FACE TO BE TAX TASK TO WHEN I&apos;M
READING THIS UM FIVE TASKS THAT
ARE BEING OUTLINED GO PHASE TWO
IS BEFORE YOU TONIGHT AT ALL.
&gt;&gt; COULD YOU DESCRIBE TO ME
WHAT PHASE TWO IS REAL QUICK
GOING INTO PHASE TWO IS A
REALLY DETAILED ANALYSIS
OF THAT INFRASTRUCTURE IN THE
FINANCIAL TERMS.
SO WE I THINK ABOUT IT PRETTY
SIMPLISTICALLY AS IF THINGS
WANT TO GIVE US KIND OF THIS
AREA BASED WHO BRINGS IT TO
THIS AND SAYS WE&apos;VE LOOKED AT
ALL THE INFRASTRUCTURE.
WE&apos;VE DONE AN ANALYSIS OF ALL
OF ITS QUALITY.
WE&apos;VE LOOKED AT ALL THE
RELIABILITY CONCERNS ALL OF THE
PREVIOUS UTILITIES FILINGS AND
HERE REALLY IS WHAT WE THINK
THAT LIKE THIS IS WHAT YOU
SHOULD OFFER TO BUY.
THIS IS WHAT YOU SHOULD DO TO
STRUCTURE THIS IS WHAT YOU
SHOULD DO FOR STAFF.
&gt;&gt; AND SO IT&apos;S A MUCH MORE
DETAILED DOVE.
WELL, THE WHAT IS IT THE REASON
THE ONE BID WAS OVER A MILLION
DOLLARS.
WERE THEY LOOKING AT THAT NO
ONE OVER A MILLION WAS A
WONDERFUL, ABSOLUTELY
COMPETENT, CAPABLE TEAM AND IT
DID HAPPEN TO BE THE TEAM THAT
WON OLDERS EFFORT.
IT JUST WASN&apos;T IT WAS A REALLY
STACKED TEAM OF HIGHLY
QUALIFIED PROFESSIONALS THAT
WERE PRETTY DARN EXPENSIVE FOR
OUR WELL HOPEFULLY YOU KNOW,
THIS CONVERSATION GOES ON AND
THE MEMBERS OF THE COMMUNITY
GET THE ANSWERS THEY&apos;RE LOOKING
FOR.
I WILL JUST SAY I&apos;M CONCERNED
BASED ON GOVERNMENT SPENDING
AND GOVERNMENT PAST PRACTICE
THAT THIS BECOMES A LOT
OF MONEY BEING SPENT ON STUDIES
AND WE HAVE LIBRARIES FULL
OF STUDIES THAT WE RARELY GO
BACK AND USE FOR FOR FOR FOR
THINGS.
UM, WE WE WE DO DO A GOOD JOB
OF COMMISSIONING STUDIES AND
GETTING INFORMATION.
BUT UNFORTUNATELY THAT
INFORMATION IS IS IS PERISHABLE
.
IT HAS HAS ONLY SO MUCH TIME
THAT IS VALUABLE.
WE CAN LOOK AT THINGS LIKE THE
TRAIN STATION AND HOW MANY
STUDIES WENT INTO THAT AND THEN
THE PRICE TAG WENT WELL YOU
KNOW MILLIONS OF DOLLARS AND SO
UM THAT&apos;S JUST MY CONCERN WITH
THIS IS THAT I&apos;D RATHER HAVE A
MORE YOU KNOW, APPLES TO APPLES
COMPARISON RATHER THAN A
PIECEMEAL APPROACH.
I APPRECIATE THE SENSITIVITY TO
THE TO THE TO THE FINANCIAL
COUNCIL GRANT, THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;VE GOT THAT CONSORTIUM I
BROUGHT THAT UP BECAUSE I WAS
ACTUALLY GOING THAT WELL PRETTY
MUCH THE OPPOSITE BECAUSE
BECAUSE COUNCILOR BRIGGS
EARLIER IN THE MEETING TALKED
ABOUT SOMETHING THAT WAS ON OUR
CONCERN AGENDA AND IN DOING
PLANNING AND DOING IT WELL WE
NOW AND WE HAVEN&apos;T GOTTEN IT
YET BUT ARE ELIGIBLE FOR A LOT
OF MONEY FROM THE FEDERAL
GOVERNMENT BECAUSE WE ARE THAT
MUCH FURTHER ALONG IN THE
PROCESS AND WHEN WE LOOK AT ALL
OF THE HIGH COST ITEMS ON DR.
SALTZ IS REALLY COMPREHENSIVE
GRAPHICS WE CAN SEE THAT KNOW
MANY OF THESE ARE COMING WITH,
YOU KNOW, MILLIONS AND MILLIONS
OF DOLLARS, TENS OF MILLIONS OR
HUNDREDS OF BILLIONS OF DOLLARS
POTENTIALLY.
&gt;&gt; AND SO SO DOING THIS
PLANNING WHEN WE HEAR FROM THE
COMMUNITY ABOUT HOW MUCH THEY
WANT TO SEE US GO FORWARD, MAKE
SURE THAT WE&apos;RE GOING FORWARD
WITH COMMON INFORMATION AND SO
THAT WE CAN HAVE COMMUNITY
DISCUSSIONS IS IT&apos;S ESSENTIAL
BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT I THINK WE
HEARD AGAIN LOUD AND CLEAR LAST
WEEK THAT THIS IS SOMETHING
THAT OUR COMMUNITY REALLY WANTS
US TO LOOK INTO AND THAT WE
WANT RELIABLE ENERGY THAT&apos;S
CONSISTENT WITH OUR ZERO GOALS,
THAT&apos;S GROUNDED IN EQUITY SO
THANK YOU TO DR. SALTZ AND HER
TEAM AND TO THE ENERGY
COMMISSION AND FOR SO MANY
MEMBERS OF THE PUBLIC THAT AND
FOR YOUR PATIENTS BECAUSE WE
WANT TO GET IT RIGHT FOR THE
DISCUSSION COUNCIL MEMBER OMOI
ALL THOSE THINGS ARE TRUE AND
THEY DON&apos;T NEED TO BE MUTUALLY
EXCLUSIVE
.
UM, I JUST BELIEVE THIS IS
SOMETHING THAT IS
RAPIDLY
CHANGING.
UM OUR ENERGY NEEDS AS IT IS AS
A NATION, AS A GLOBE ARE
CHANGING BECAUSE OF WHAT WE&apos;RE
EXPERIENCING RIGHT NOW WITH
CLIMATE CHANGE.
SO UM THIS IS SOMETHING THAT&apos;S
GOING TO BE EVOLVING VERY
QUICKLY AT LEVELS OF GOVERNMENT
MUCH HIGHER THAN THIS THAT WILL
SUPERSEDE ANYTHING THAT WE DO
HERE.
SO AGAIN, THESE TAXPAYER
DOLLARS AND WE&apos;RE GOING TO BE
DIPPING INTO THE GENERAL FUND
BY THE TUNE OF NEARLY A QUARTER
MILLION DOLLARS FOR THIS STUDY.
AND SO ARE WE SPENDING THE
TAXPAYER DOLLARS JUDICIOUSLY
AND WISELY ENOUGH AND WITH THE
INFORMATION WE CAN ACTUALLY ACT
ON IT.
ARE WE JUST CHECKING A BOX WITH
IT?
AND SO THAT&apos;S ONE OF MY
CONCERNS.
UM, I APPRECIATE THE TIME.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU FOR THE DISCUSSION
.
&gt;&gt; COUNTERASSAULT.
I REALLY APPRECIATE IT.
THE PUBLIC COMMENT EARLIER
ABOUT OUR MEDICALLY VULNERABLE
FOLKS WHO REALLY RELY ON
CONSISTENT ACCESS TO TO THE
GRID THE EXISTING GRID.
&gt;&gt; I HAVE A SISTER WITH TYPE
ONE DIABETES AND WHENEVER A
POWER GOES OUT IN THE AREA IN
OUR NEIGHBORHOOD THERE&apos;S A
COLLECTIVE EFFORT TO FIGURE OUT
HOW CAN WE HELP FOLKS WITH OR
WITHOUT POWER STORE THEIR
INSULIN?
&gt;&gt; THESE ARE EITHER VERY REAL
SCENARIOS IN OUR COMMUNITY.
I THAT THAT FORCED LAST YEAR
WAS IT LAST YEAR A YEAR BEFORE
OR DTG ACTUALLY HAD TO PUT OUT
A CENTER IN COLLABORATION WITH
DR. DR. STULTS WITH WATER AIR
CONDITIONING AND WITH THE
PUBLIC SCHOOLS?
&gt;&gt; I&apos;D LIKE TO SEE THAT HAPPEN
LESS FREQUENTLY IF WE CAN DO
THAT HERE.
&gt;&gt; SO IF A FEASIBILITY STUDY IS
THE FIRST STEP TO FIND OUT A
WAY SO THAT WE CAN PROTECT
FOLKS WHO NEED RELIABLE ENERGY
AND IF WE THINK ABOUT ALL THE
OTHER THINGS THAT WE INVEST IN
IN THE CITY AND ROADS AND THAT
KIND OF INFRASTRUCTURE, I THINK
IT&apos;S PRETTY FAIR TO HAVE
ELECTRICITY ANOTHER ANOTHER
ANOTHER WAY TO MAKE SURE FOLKS
ARE OK AVAILABLE TO US.
SO THIS IS ESSENTIAL
INFRASTRUCTURE AND WE&apos;VE SHOWN
THAT WE&apos;VE DEMONSTRATED THAT WE
CAN MANAGE OUR WATER AND SEWAGE
WELL MY HOPE IS THAT WE CAN DO
THIS AS WELL TO THE DISCUSSION
.
FOR MY PART I&apos;M INCREDIBLY
EXCITED ABOUT THIS ABOUT THIS
FEASIBILITY STUDY MOVING
FORWARD WE HAVE A GOAL TO
ACHIEVE COMMUNITY WIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY BY THE YEAR
2030.
THAT OF COURSE IS A GOAL THAT
HAS INCREDIBLE MORAL
IMPLICATIONS AND IN ITSELF I
BELIEVE SOME SPECIES OF MORAL
OBLIGATION.
BUT IT IS ALSO HAS AS ITS GOAL
THE PROVISION OF SERVICES TO
RESIDENTS THE AND THE PROVISION
OF SERVICES TO RESIDENTS IS IS
FACTUALLY UNFORGIVING.
IT REQUIRES THE US TO ANALYZE
ARMY, THE COURT, THE LEGAL
ENVIRONMENT IF NOT THE
TECHNICAL ENVIRONMENT, THE
STAFF AND PERSON POWER
ENVIRONMENT AND THE FINANCIAL
ENVIRONMENT.
AND WE CANNOT DO THOSE THINGS.
WE CANNOT ACCOMPLISH THAT
ANALYSIS WITHOUT HAVING ALL THE
FACTS BEFORE US.
WE CAN&apos;T ACCOMPLISH OUR COMMON
GOAL OF COMMUNITYWIDE
CARBON NEUTRALITY BY THE YEAR
2030 WITHOUT A COMMON SET
OF FACTS WITHOUT UNDERSTANDING
THE FACTS.
AND IT IS MY MY HOPE THAT WITH
THAT THIS THAT THIS FEASIBILITY
STUDY WILL BE A GIANT STEP
FORWARD TOWARDS TOWARDS THAT
END WE ALL KNOW WHERE WE WANT
TO GO AND WE NEED TO KNOW HOW
WE CAN BEST GET THERE BECAUSE
TIME IS INCREDIBLY SHORT AND
UNDERSTANDING UNDERSTANDING OUR
VARIOUS PATHS, THEIR COSTS,
THEIR BENEFITS, THEIR THEIR
OBSTACLES, THEIR OPPORTUNITIES
WILL BE SOMETHING THAT WE I
THINK ARE ALL INCREDIBLY
EXCITED TO ACCOMPLISH AND
UNCOVER.
AND I&apos;M LOOKING FORWARD TO THE
FRUITS OF THIS OF THE STUDY SO
THAT WE CAN ALL DO SO TOGETHER
FOR THE DISCUSSION.
ROLL CALL PLEASE.
STARTING WITH CATS.
NO, I&apos;M LILY.
NO ALLOWING YES CATS MAHINA NO
HOUSEWARE.
YES, THAT&apos;S MY GRISWOLD.
YES.
HEALTH REFORM.
YES BECAUSE MCGRANN YES BECAUSE
MY DENHA YES.
MARY TAYLOR YES ELSMERE IHR YES
THAT&apos;S RIGHT YES THAT&apos;S A YES
VOTE AND CARRY DO YOU HAVE A
DO
TODAY OF A CLOSED SESSION.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE NO REQUEST FOR
CLOSED SESSION THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; WE HAVE BEFORE US THE
SUPPORT OF COMMUNICATIONS
PETITIONS AND REFERRALS MADE A
MOTION PLEASE TO APPROVE THE
CLERK&apos;S SUPPORT MOVE BY COUNCIL
MEMBER FOR DENHA SAVE MY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
&gt;&gt; NO DISCUSSION PLEASE WITH
THE KIRK SUPPORT LEFEBVRE POST
THE KIRK SUPPORT IS APPROVED.
&gt;&gt; DO WE HAVE COMMUNICATION
TODAY FROM OUR CITY ATTORNEY?
NO THANK YOU.
I DIDN&apos;T QUITE CATCH THAT BUT
I&apos;M TAKING IT AS A NO.
&gt;&gt; ALL RIGHT.
I&apos;LL TAKE A NONVERBAL NO.
WE NOW COME TO PUBLIC COMMENT
GENERAL TIME PUBLIC AND TIME IS
AN OPPORTUNITY FOR MEMBERS
OF THE PUBLIC TO SPEAK TO
COUNCIL IN THE COMMUNITY ABOUT
MATTERS OF MUNICIPAL TO SPEAK A
COUPLE OF GENERAL TIME.
ONE NEED NOT HAVE SIGNED UP IN
ADVANCE SPEAKERS BOTH HERE AND
ONLINE OF THREE MINUTES IN
WHICH TO SPEAK.
SO PLEASE PAY CLOSE ATTENTION
TO THE TIME OUR CLERK WILL
NOTIFY YOU IN THIRTY SECONDS.
REMAINING AND WHEN YOUR TIME
HAS EXPIRED, WHEN YOUR TIME IS
EXPIRED EITHER HERE OR ON LINE
PLEASE CONCLUDE REMARKS AND
CEDE THE FLOOR.
IS THERE ANYONE ELSE WOULD LIKE
TO SPEAK AT COMMENT?
&gt;&gt; NEED TO RAISE YOUR HAND JUST
JUST COME ON UP EVERYBODY.
ERIC LIPTON ROSEWOOD&apos;S I&apos;M
RUNNING FOR MAYOR AND AS AN
INDEPENDENT AS YOU PROBABLY AND
I WANT TO ACTUALLY SAY GOOD JOB
TONIGHT FOR PASSING THIS
RESOLUTION REGARDING THE SEIU
AND THE MUNICIPAL POWER
UTILITY.
&gt;&gt; I THINK THAT IT&apos;S ESSENTIAL
THAT WE DO SOMETHING AND THAT I
WAS VERY IMPRESSED BY DR.
STOLTZFUS EVALUATION OF THIS
FEASIBILITY STUDY AND I THINK
THAT&apos;S EXACTLY WHAT WE NEED TO
DO BECAUSE WE KNOW THAT RIGHT
NOW DETROIT EDISONS RELIABILITY
IS VERY LOW.
WE KNOW THAT THE RATE PAYERS
ARE THE ONES WHO ARE GETTING
THE BENEFIT OF WHATEVER THE
EXCESS RATES ARE AND THAT&apos;S
SOMETHING WHICH HAS BEEN FOR
THE OTHER CITIES WHICH HAVE
MUNICIPAL POWER UTILITIES THAT
EXCESS MONEY GOES BACK INTO THE
SYSTEM AND NOT TO RATEPAYERS.
SO IT MAKES A LOT OF SENSE TO
DO THAT.
OBVIOUSLY WE DO HAVE TO STUDY
THIS IN MORE DETAIL AND I
APPLAUD YOU FOR DOING THAT.
BUT I SHOULD ALSO POINT OUT ONE
OTHER THING ABOUT DTD CURRENT
POLICY REGARDING NET METERING
FOR SOLAR INSTALLATIONS RIGHT
NOW AS HAS BEEN POINTED OUT BY
MR TSG AND OTHER PEOPLE,
DETROIT EDISON WILL PAY YOU
WHOLESALE FOR YOUR ELECTRIC
THAT YOU GENERATE WHILE THEY
CHARGE YOU RETAIL.
AND WHY THIS DOESN&apos;T MAKE ANY
SENSE IS BECAUSE WHEN THE
UTILITY NEEDS THAT ELECTRICITY
THE MOST AND THEY WOULD BE
PAYING THE MOST FOR THOSE PEAK
KILOWATTS IN WHICH THEY WOULD
GENERALLY BE FIRING UP GAS
POWERED GENERATORS AS AUXILIARY
GENERATORS THAT&apos;S THE TIME WHEN
SOLAR INSTALLATIONS ARE ALSO
GENERATING THE MOST POWER
DURING THOSE HOT SUNNY DAYS.
SO THE LOGIC OF ALLOWING YOUR
SOLAR INSTALLATIONS TO GET
RETAIL BACK FROM THE UTILITY
INSTEAD OF WHOLESALE MAKES SO
MUCH SENSE FOR ENCOURAGING
PEOPLE TO GET SOLAR AND HAVE IT
PAY OFF AND NOT BE A WASTED
INVESTMENT FOR THE HOMEOWNER
AND AND D.T. SADLY HAS
REPEATEDLY AND CONSISTENTLY FOR
YEARS AND YEARS AND YEARS
FOUGHT TRUE NET METERING.
SO FOR THAT REASON ALONE IF
WE&apos;RE ALL CONCERNED ABOUT ZERO
GETTING TO ZERO CARBON , THAT
IS ONE REASON TO GO WITH AN MP.
YOU MUNICIPAL PUBLIC UTILITY.
SO GOOD JOB TONIGHT.
I APPRECIATE THAT.
I JUST WANT TO SAY A COUPLE
OF OTHER THINGS.
YOU KNOW ONE OF THE PEOPLE YOU
NEVER HEAR ABOUT VERY MUCH
THERE&apos;S NO DRAMA, THERE&apos;S NO
SCANDAL AND THAT&apos;S JACKIE
BEAUDRY.
YOU KNOW, SHE&apos;S A PROFESSIONAL
OF THE HIGHEST QUALITY THEY HER
OFFICE DOES A GREAT JOB.
THE ELECTIONS RUN SMOOTHLY AND
WE&apos;RE LUCKY TO HAVE HER AS
WELL.
&gt;&gt; SO THANKS VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
I WAS I JUST WANT TO GIVE THESE
PAPERWORK TO ALL OF YOU.
&gt;&gt; I WANT TO DO YOU DELIVER TO
THE KIRKLEES THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; IS THERE ANYONE ELSE HOUSE
I&apos;D LIKE TO SPEAK AT PUBLIC
COMMENT.
IS THERE ANYONE ON LINE WHO&apos;D
LIKE TO SPEAK A PUBLIC COMMENT
?
MAYOR, WE HAVE A COUPLE
OF CALLERS ON LINE CALL HER AT
THE PHONE NUMBER FIVE THREE
FOUR FOUR STAR SIX AM YOUR
PHONE CALL FIVE THREE FOUR.
&gt;&gt; GO AHEAD.
THANK YOU.
GREETINGS THIS TIME SO WE&apos;RE
CALLING LOWERTOWN I WILL THANK
YOU FOR PASSING WHAT YOU HAVE
WITH REGARD TO THE STUDY.
OH DEFINITELY A LOT OF MONEY TO
SPEND STUDY SO ALWAYS SOMETHING
TO BE CONCERNED ABOUT TO WATCH
CLOSELY BUT THANK YOU FOR
READING WAS CONCERNS PRETTY
EXCITED ABOUT SOME OF THE
THINGS THAT WE CAN DO IN TERMS
OF LOCAL SMALL GROUPS THAT
COULD WORK REALLY WELL FOR US
TO BE ABLE TO COLLECTIVELY PUT
IN SOLAR ON MULTIPLE HAVE GOT
AND SHARE THAT IN SMALL GROUPS
OF ELECTRIC VEHICLE.
IT&apos;S GOOD TO KNOW THAT THAT&apos;S
INCREASING PERSONALLY I
HAVE
INSTALLED ELECTRICAL CHARGE ON
THE PLANT.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M MAKING FREE TO MY
TENANTS TO USE THAT&apos;S FREE NO
CHARGE TO ALL MY TENANTS TO
USE.
I THINK WE CAN ALL MAKE STEPS
TO MOVE IN THE RIGHT DIRECTION
TOWARDS MILITARY TO ZERO GOALS.
&gt;&gt; NO SOMETHING I&apos;D LIKE TO
REDEVELOP THAT WORKS AGAINST
MALARIA TO ZERO GOALS AND
PROPOSE OUR CURRENT MASS
REZONING OF HUNDREDS OF PARCELS
THE DC ONE WHICH MAKES NO
PROVISION WHATSOEVER FOR
RECTIFICATION WORK IN THE
OPPOSITE DIRECTION OF MEETING
OUR FUTURE GOALS IF WE PUT A
SUBSTANTIAL NUMBER OF UNITS
WITHOUT ELECTRIFICATION WE&apos;D BE
ABLE THAT WE CAN&apos;T GET OUT NO
MATTER HOW MUCH MONEY WE RAISED
IN THE VILLAGE, HOW MANY
WONDERFUL THINGS WE DO IF WE
BUILD LOTS OF UNITS WITHOUT
ELECTRIFICATION, THAT DEFICIT
SIMPLY CANNOT BE MADE UP TO
ZERO GOALS SHORT OF BUYING A
BUNCH OF OFFSETS IN TWENTY
TWENTY NINE WE NEED TO RELOOK
AT HOW WE ARE DOING OUR
PLANNING AND ZONING IF WE&apos;RE
SETTING OURSELVES UP FOR
FAILURE FOR A TO ZERO MARKET
THE PLANNING COMMISSION
ROBERTSON BROTHERS IS GOING TO
BRING IN A VERY LARGE NEW
DEVELOPMENT FOR A PUBLIC
HEARING THAT RECENTLY CHANGED
THEIR PLANS TO HAVE THEIR FOR
SALE OWNER OCCUPIED HOMES FULLY
ELECTRIC BUT I DON&apos;T BELIEVE
THERE INCLUDING THERE FOR RENT
UNIT AND I&apos;M NOT SURE WHAT THE
PERCENTAGE OF THEIR MAKE UP IS
.
THEY&apos;VE GOT FIVE, SIX HUNDRED
UNITS THAT ARE GOING TO OVER
THERE.
I&apos;M NOT SURE WHAT THE FINAL
PLANS ARE RIGHT NOW.
COMEDY OR RENTAL NOT
ELECTRIFIED VERSUS OWNERSHIP
ELECTRIFIED.
WE CAN&apos;T DIG OURSELVES OUT
OF OUR WHOLE BUILDING.
A LOT OF ISSUES WE CAN TALK
ABOUT ABOUT WHAT WE CAN
REGULATE, WHAT WE CAN&apos;T
REGULATE BUT WE CERTAINLY HAVE
A LOT MORE POWER THAN THE
PEOPLE CLAIMING WE DO.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M A DEVELOPER.
I&apos;VE BEEN IN THE BUSINESS IN
THE REAL ESTATE BUSINESS FOR
THIRTY YEARS.
THERE&apos;S STUFF WE CAN DO RIGHT
NOW WE&apos;RE NOT DOING AND THE
NUMBER ONE THING WE CANNOT DO
IS DIG OURSELVES INTO A HOLE
THROUGH OUR PLANNING AND ZONING
EFFORT THAT WE CANNOT DIG
OURSELVES OUT OF AND WE WILL
NOT NEAR TO ZERO IF WE KEEP
DOING WHAT WE ARE DOING RIGHT
NOW.
&gt;&gt; WELL, WHAT&apos;S BEING PROPOSED
RIGHT NOW THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU
.
LUIS VASQUEZ, DO YOU HAVE A
COMMENT?
YES, I DO.
THANK YOU, LUIS VASQUEZ.
I DID IN THE FIRST WORD I
WANTED TO EXPRESS APPRECIATION
FOR VOTING AFFIRMATIVELY ON DC
ONE TONIGHT AND ALSO EXPRESS MY
DISAPPOINTMENT IN MY FIRST
COUNCIL MEMBER MR. HAYNER FOR
VOTING AGAINST THAT RESOLUTION.
I THINK THE PUBLIC DESERVES TO
KNOW WHETHER OR NOT AND I SEE
YOU OR SUPPLIES THE ENERGY
UTILITY IS THE RIGHT WAY TO GO.
I I THINK WE NEED TO KNOW THE
ANSWERS TO THAT AND OTHER
RESIDENTS OF OTHER WORDS
INCLUDING AND INCLUDING ONE
HAVE BEEN CLAMORING FOR
UNDERSTANDING WHAT GOES INTO
OUR OWN ENERGY IN THE CITY ALSO
I JUST WANTED TO REMIND PEOPLE
THAT THERE&apos;S STILL A PANDEMIC
GOING ON WITH TRANSMISSION
OF COVID-19 STILL OCCURRING
INCLUDING IN WASHTENAW COUNTY.
SO ALL THOSE SPEAKERS WHO SPOKE
TONIGHT IN FRONT OF COUNCIL
WITHOUT WEARING A MASK THESE
GUYS MASCOTTE IT DOESN&apos;T TAKE
VERY MUCH TO DO THAT AND NOT
SPEAKING WITHOUT A MASK REALLY
IS OFF-PUTTING TO ME AND I
THINK YOU NEED YOU OWE IT TO
THE OTHER PEOPLE IN THE
AUDIENCE AND OUR COUNCIL
MEMBERS TO NOT SPREAD DISEASE.
&gt;&gt; PLEASE THANK YOU.
HAVE A GOOD NIGHT EVERYBODY.
THANK YOU MICHEL HUGHES, DO YOU
HAVE A COMMENT.
&gt;&gt; YEAH.
ON THE TOPIC THOSE THAT MASKS I
I DEFINITELY REMEMBER IN RECENT
CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS THAT THE
SPEAKERS WERE ASKED TO WEAR
MASKS AND WE&apos;RE TOLD TO FIX THE
MASKS IF THEY FELL OFF THEIR
FACE OR WHATEVER.
AND I DON&apos;T REMEMBER HEARING AN
ANNOUNCEMENT ABOUT THAT.
THE CITY COUNCIL MEETINGS WERE
NOW UNMASKED AREA AND IT SEEMS
TO ME LIKE IT&apos;S REALLY
IMPORTANT THAT MASKIN BE
ENFORCED BECAUSE THAT&apos;S THE
ONLY WAY TO ENSURE THAT IT&apos;S A
THAT THAT THE CITY COUNCIL
MEETINGS ARE SAFE AND
ACCESSIBLE SPACE FOR PEOPLE.
IF YOU LEAVE IT UP TO PEOPLE TO
PUT ON MASKS, THEN YOU&apos;RE
TELLING THEM THAT IT&apos;S OK FOR
YOU, IT&apos;S OK IT&apos;S OK WITH YOU
IF PEOPLE IN DANGER, THEIR
FELLOW AND OUR RESIDENTS AND
YOU&apos;RE ALLOWING THEM TO PUT
OTHER PEOPLE IN DANGER AND THAT
EXIT THAT MAKES THE CITY
COUNCIL CHAMBERS INACCESSIBLE
SPACE THE PEOPLE CAN&apos;T GO TO.
IT&apos;S GOOD THAT YOU GUYS ARE
PROVIDING ALTERNATIVES LIKE THE
ZOOM AND THE PHONE CALL BUT
COMING IN PERSON SHOULD STILL
BE A AN OPTION FOR PEOPLE AND
PEOPLE SHOULDN&apos;T HAVE TO RISK
GETTING PERMANENTLY DISABLED OR
KILLED BY THE PANDEMIC THAT&apos;S
STILL GOING ON IN ORDER TO
SPEAK TO THE TO THE COUNCIL AND
PARTICIPATE IN THE GOVERNMENT.
SO YOU IF IF IT&apos;S LEGALLY
POSSIBLE FOR YOU GUYS TO
REQUIRE MASKS, PLEASE GO BACK
TO THE POLICY OF REQUIRING
MASKS.
THANK YOU.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU
, MAYOR.
I DON&apos;T HAVE ANY OTHER CALLERS
ON THE LINE WITH THEIR HANDS UP
SEEN ON PUBLIC IS CLOSED ARE
THEIR COMMUNICATIONS FROM
COUNCIL KALTENBRUNNER YEAH.
&gt;&gt; THANKS MR. MAYOR.
YEAH, I THINK IT&apos;S A KIND
OF INDICATION OF THE INCREDIBLE
PRIVILEGE THAT EXISTS IN OUR
COMMUNITY WHEN PEOPLE COMPLAIN
WHEN THEY GET EXACTLY WHAT THEY
WANT AND SOMETIMES PEOPLE ASK
ME WHY DO YOU VOTE AGAINST THIS
OR WHY YOU VOTE AGAINST THAT?
WELL, IT&apos;S EVIDENT THAT WE&apos;RE
GOING TO SUPPORT THAT STUDY.
IT&apos;S CLEAR FROM THE
CONVERSATION AT THE TABLE.
SO A VOTE AGAINST THAT IS A
VOTE FOR THE ONE 11TH OF THE
PEOPLE THAT I REPRESENT IN OUR
COMMUNITY ONE 11TH OF THAT
POPULATION WHO IF THEY KNEW
WHAT WAS HAPPENING HERE IN THE
CHAMBERS ON MANY ISSUES NOT
JUST THIS AND REALLY NOT REALLY
THIS ONE HARDLY AT ALL.
&gt;&gt; THEY WOULD SAY NO, PLEASE
DON&apos;T VOTE FOR THAT.
PLEASE DON&apos;T SUPPORT TO HEAR IT
ALL THE TIME.
&gt;&gt; I&apos;M GLAD YOU DIDN&apos;T SUPPORT
THAT.
SO YOU KNOW SOMETHING PASSES.
IT&apos;S GOING ON WITHOUT MY VOTE.
SO A NO VOTE IN MANY INSTANCES
IS A VOTE FOR THE
REPRESENTATION OF PEOPLE WHO
DON&apos;T EVEN KNOW WHAT&apos;S
HAPPENING HERE IN THE CHAMBERS
,YOU KNOW, UNTIL THEIR TAXES
GO UP.
&gt;&gt; I I GOT TO TELL YOU I THINK
IT&apos;S GROSSLY INAPPROPRIATE FOR
PEOPLE TO BE SHILLING FOR A
VILLAGE OR ANY BALLOT QUESTION
HERE AT THE TABLE AND IT&apos;S
REALLY A VIOLATION OF THE THE
THE ETHICS THAT ARE RECOMMENDED
BY THE MICHIGAN MUNICIPAL
LEAGUE AMONG OTHER
ORGANIZATIONS.
&gt;&gt; IF WE DECARBONIZED OUR
COMMUNITY TOMORROW, THE
CARBON INPUTS THAT ARE ALREADY
IN OUR SYSTEM ARE GOING TO TAKE
A DECADE TO FLOW FORWARD AND
THERE&apos;S NOTHING WE CAN DO ABOUT
THAT.
AND SO I THINK IT&apos;S TOTALLY
APPROPRIATE THAT WE MAKE THESE
DECARBONIZATION EFFORTS
PERSONAL AND AS A COMMUNITY.
BUT WE HAVE TO UNDERSTAND THAT
WRITING A CHECK IT&apos;S GOING TO
MAKE YOU FEEL BETTER ABOUT WHAT
YOU DID OR YOU CAN TELL YOUR
GRANDKIDS, HEY, I TRIED TO DO
SOMETHING OR WHATEVER.
&gt;&gt; IT&apos;S TOO LATE FOR ALL THAT.
AND SO I WOULD SAY TO ZERO PLAN
I SUPPORTED IT MOSTLY FOR THE
RESILIENCE NEEDS THAT WE&apos;RE
GOING TO HAVE AS A COMMUNITY
COUNCIL MEMBER.
SO I JUST WANTED TO SHARE THAT
COUNCILMAN GRISWOLD, I WANT TO
THANK EVERYONE WHO&apos;S BEEN USING
THE AID TO FIX IT SYSTEM.
IT SEEMS TO BE GAINING IN
POPULARITY ALMOST EVERY DAY
WHICH FROM A STAFF PERSPECTIVE
THAT&apos;S PROBABLY NOT A GOOD
THING.
BUT IF WE&apos;RE FIXING MORE OF OUR
STREETLIGHTS AND WE ARE THEN
THEN THAT&apos;S POSITIVE.
&gt;&gt; AND I KNOW THAT A LOT
OF NEGATIVE THINGS WERE SAID
ABOUT TODAY.
&gt;&gt; BUT I JUST WANT TO THANK DTG
FOR RESPONDING TO SOME OF OUR
STREETLIGHT OUTAGES IN A VERY
TIMELY MANNER TO THE POINT
WHERE LAST WEEK DTG DID
TROUBLESHOOTING ALMOST
IMMEDIATELY AND FOUND OUT THAT
THE LIGHTS WERE ACTUALLY CITY
LIGHTS, NOT DTL BUT THEY TOLD
US WHAT NEEDED TO BE DONE SO
THEY SORT OF WENT ABOVE AND
BEYOND.
SO THANK YOU FOR THAT.
I RAN INTO A POLICE OFFICER
TODAY AND SHE HAD NOTHING BUT
POSITIVE THINGS TO SAY ABOUT
OUR NEW INTERIM POLICE CHIEF.
SO I THINK THAT A LOT OF THINGS
ARE GOING VERY WELL IN THIS
COMMUNITY AND OF COURSE
WE
CAN&apos;T LOSE SIGHT THE FACT THAT
THERE ARE ALWAYS OPPORTUNITIES
TO DO BETTER AND WE HAVE A CITY
ADMINISTRATOR AND A CITY
ATTORNEY THAT I THINK ARE GOING
TO BE ABLE TO TAKE US DOWN THAT
PATH TO TO TAKE US TO A NEW
LEVEL CUSTOMER SERVICE AND
HOPEFULLY GET THIS GOVERNMENT
PLUME UNDER CONTROL.
SO THANK YOU.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL.
WELL, TO SAY SUPER BRIEFLY WITH
RESPECT TO TO MASKIN THIS WAS
MY ERROR.
THERE IS OF COURSE CONTINUES TO
BE THE POLICY HERE AT THE TABLE
AT SOME POINT I OBSERVED THAT
IT WAS NOT BEING NOT BEING
FOLLOWED BY A COUPLE OF MEMBERS
OF THE AUDIENCE.
BUT BY THAT TIME THE MEETING
HAD ALREADY BEEN FAIRLY WELL
UNDERWAY AND I FELT AS A MATTER
WITHIN THE MEETING CONSISTENCY
THAT WE&apos;D HAVE IT THE IT WAS
AND THAT I&apos;D BE A BORN AGAIN
RULE FOLLOWER NEXT TIME.
WHETHER THAT WAS AN ERROR OR
NOT, WHO CAN SAY BUT THAT&apos;S NOT
THAT IS WHAT HAPPENED.
&gt;&gt; THAT WAS MY MISTAKE AND
WE&apos;LL WE&apos;LL MOVE FORWARD SO
LONG AS THAT&apos;S THE POLICY, I&apos;LL
BE MORE MINDFUL OF IT.
FURTHER COMMUNICATION FROM
COUNCIL MAY A MOTION TO ADJOURN
PLEASE MOVE BY COUNCILMAN EVERY
SECOND COUNTS OVER A DENHA
DISCUSSION ON FAVOR POSED.
&gt;&gt; WE ARE ADJOURNED.
&gt;&gt; THANK YOU